Russia 's victory put the eight-time Olympic champions into the quarterfinals and also clinched a spot for Sweden .
Slovakia advanced with a win over the United States ( 02-Jan ) on Saturday , leaving one remaining spot from Group-B .
China has announced its sixth human bird flu death .
Chinese health officials said Wednesday a 35-year-old woman from Sichuan province died last week from the H5N1 strain .
Meanwhile , Turkish officials say bird flu killed an 11-year-old girl on her way to a hospital Wednesday .
And Iraqi health officials have sent samples to a lab , suspecting bird flu in the death of 14-year-old girl in the Kurdish city of Suleimaniya .
The news of the deaths came as international donors pledged nearly two billion dollars at a bird flu conference in Beijing , exceeding expectations .
The money will be used by poor countries to set up prevention programs .
U.N. officials say the virus - which has spread from southeast Asia and China into Turkey - could soon move into Africa and Europe with devastating effects .
Bird flu has killed more than 80 people since 2003 .
Lawmakers in Chad have voted to relax controls on the use of the country 's oil revenue despite objections from the World Bank .
The new legislation abolishes a fund that reserved 10 percent of oil revenue for future generations .
It also doubles the share of revenues to be made available to the public treasury and makes security one of the priority sectors where the money can be spent .
World Bank President Paul Wolfowitz said in a statement Thursday the legislation is a material breach of the original agreement the bank made with Chad .
He says it harms the well-being of Chad 's poorest and most vulnerable citizens .
The bank provided money for Chad 's oil industry with the condition that the central African nation use the profits to reduce poverty .
Burma is rejecting the latest U.S. report on human trafficking , which blacklisted the country as one of the world 's worst offenders for a seventh consecutive year .
Burma 's state-run New Light of Myanmar newspaper quoted a foreign ministry official as saying the annual report lacks objectivity and does not fully reflect Burma 's efforts against human trafficking .
The U.S. State Department 's " Trafficking in Persons Report " listed Burma in tier three , meaning it is one of the world 's worst offenders , along with North Korea and Sudan .
Burma 's foreign ministry , however , said that it had taken action against around 400 traffickers in 2006 .
The United States and the European Union have imposed economic sanctions on Burma to protests human rights abuses and the lack of democratic progress in the military-run country .
Iran has tested new Russian-built air defenses , as part of two-day war games off the Persian Gulf and Sea of Oman .
Iran 's Revolutionary Guard commander , Brigadier General Hossein Salami , told state-run media that the military and air force are " enhancing the defensive capabilities . "
He said they test-fired their new Russian defense missile system called TOR-M1 .
Russia completed delivery of the system last month .
Wednesday 's test comes as the United States moves a second aircraft carrier to the Gulf .
U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates said Friday the Bush administration is not planning to go to war with Iran .
The United States and other Western nations accuse Tehran of seeking nuclear weapons .
But Iran maintains its nuclear program is solely for peaceful purposes .
Hundreds of student supporters of the militant group Hamas have clashed with those backing the ruling Fatah party of Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas .
Witnesses say the massive brawl erupted Sunday when several hundred Fatah backers at the West Bank 's Hebron University started shouting their own party 's slogans in the midst of a large Hamas campaign rally for student council elections .
Hospital officials say at least eight people were injured .
Hamas , the largest and most powerful Palestinian militant group , has emerged as a key player in Palestinian politics .
On Saturday , the Islamic group announced it will end a nearly decade-long boycott and take part in Palestinian parliamentary elections in July .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez says he plans to raise taxes on foreign oil companies in Venezuela .
Mr. Chavez Sunday described the move as a " tax on extraction , " saying it would create one billion dollars in new state revenue .
He made the announcement Sunday during his weekly television and radio program .
The new tax will be 33 percent - up from 16.7 percent .
Mr. Chavez has accused foreign oil companies of exploiting his country 's vast petroleum reserves without paying sufficient taxes , and has taken steps to increase revenue from the industry .
American skier Bode Miller has captured the Vancouver Olympic gold medal in the men 's super-combined event , which combines one downhill run with one slalom run .
After finishing seventh in the opening downhill run in Whistler , British Columbia Sunday , the 32-year-old Miller skied one of the fastest slalom .
He finished with a two-run combined time of two minutes and 44.92 seconds .
Ivica Kostelic of Croatia took the silver medal , 33/100ths of a second back , while Silvan Zurbriggen of Switzerland took the bronze , another 7/100ths behind .
With the win , Miller now has three medals in Vancouver - the super-combined gold , a silver in the super-G and the downhill bronze .
South Africa is sending a representative to next week 's Middle East peace conference in the U.S. city of Annapolis , Maryland near Washington .
In a statement Saturday the South African government says Foreign Affairs Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma will participate in the summit designed to find a peaceful resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict .
The Foreign Affairs Ministry says South Africa hopes to share its experience transitioning from apartheid to democracy as part of the international effort to achieve peace in the Middle East .
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas are scheduled to attend the peace summit .
Saudi Arabia which has no diplomatic ties with Israel will also be in attendance .
The U.S. State Department says Washington has invited some 50 nations and entities to the conference to be held Tuesday .
A top Spanish court has announced that it will no longer handle fast-track extraditions for Germany after that country refused to hand over a suspected al-Qaida member to Madrid .
The court , in Madrid , announced the policy change Wednesday , saying it will now revert to the the old , much slower way of processing extradition to Germany .
Spain 's move comes after Germany 's top court in July ordered the release of Mamoun Darkazanli , a dual German-Syrian citizen indicted in Spain as an al-Qaida suspect .
Germany 's Federal Constitutional court said the EU arrest warrant for Mr. Darkazanli violated the country 's constitution .
Spain is holding 50 suspects wanted by Germany on charges such as fraud , drug trafficking and robbery .
The Spanish court says it will give German authorities 40 days to present standard extradition documents .
If Germany fails to do so , Spain will release the suspects .
Russian Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov says his government would be worried by any U.S. and NATO attempts to further expand their influence into the former Soviet sphere .
At a speech to the American Council for International Relations in New York Thursday , Mr. Ivanov said Russia sees no sense in further NATO enlargement .
The 26-member organization added seven European countries last year .
He also said Russia is concerned about American military presence in Georgia , a former Soviet republic where a pro-U.S. president came to power last year following a popular uprising .
Mr. Ivanov stressed that Russia is not opposed to U.S. training of Georgian peacekeepers for overseas missions .
But he says Moscow would not like Georgian peacekeepers to get involved in conflicts in the Caucasus .
A top World Health Organization official says the H1N1 swine flu virus is " unstoppable " and says every country needs the vaccine .
WHO vaccine research chief Marie-Paule Kieny said Monday that health care workers should get immunized first because they are needed during an outbreak .
She said authorities must then decide who gets shots next .
Swine flu is mild in healthy people and most victims do not need hospitalization .
But the virus can be severe and even deadly in those with other serious health concerns , including asthma and pregnancy .
Researchers also say that extreme obesity is now considered a risk factor for a severe reaction .
Meanwhile , officials in Britain , Thailand , and the Philippines all reported new swine flu deaths Monday .
The latest WHO report confirms nearly 95,000 swine flu cases around the world , with 429 deaths .
Pakistan 's Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz Pakistani Prime Minister says Pakistan wants the peaceful settlement of its dispute with India over Kashmir but will never accept the ceasefire Line of Control as a permanent border .
The dispute over the Himalayan region is at the heart of decades of tension between South Asia 's nuclear-armed rivals .
Speaking to legislators of Pakistani-ruled Kashmir in Muzaffarabad Thursday , Mr. Aziz said Pakistan has always emphasized that differences with India should be resolved through " meaningful and constructive " dialogue .
But he said Pakistan can not agree to any proposal that aims at converting the existing Line of Control into a permanent border .
He also said the ongoing peace process between the two rivals is irreversible and they will have to show courage and flexibility to continue the dialogue .
The billionaire founder of Facebook , and 16 other extremely wealthy individuals and families in the United States have agreed to give most of their fortunes to charity .
Mark Zuckerberg 's social media empire is estimated to have earned him $ 6.9 billion .
The 26-year old entrepreneur says some wealthy people wait until late in their lives to give back .
He says it is a mistake to wait " when there is so much to be done . "
The new donors have joined a charitable project called the " Giving Pledge " started by billionaires Warren Buffett and Bill Gates .
The group now has 57 members and is looking for new recruits outside the United States .
The pledges come at a time when the economic crisis has increased the need for social services and decreased overall charitable donations .
The cholera epidemic ravaging Zimbabwe has commanded the attention of public authorities and international relief organizations , but meanwhile a less-visible tragedy is unfolding among those living with – and dying in large numbers from – HIV / AIDS .
HIV / AIDS advocates say resources have been concentrated on fighting the cholera epidemic , draining funds away from programs supporting those living with HIV / AIDS , who are highly vulnerable to the cholera bacterium which is almost ubiquitous in the country .
Research suggests about 15 % of Zimbabwe 's population is HIV-positive .
Frenk Guni , technical director for HIV-AIDS with Management Systems International in Washington , told reporter Patience Rusere of VOA 's Studio 7 for Zimbabwe that someone is dying from HIV / AIDS every three minutes in Zimbabwe .
More reports from VOA 's Studio 7 for Zimbabwe ...
European Union foreign ministers have renewed sanctions against Burma 's military rulers for another year .
Under the sanctions , members of the ruling military junta and their families are barred from entering the EU .
The measures also ban EU companies and organizations from doing business in Burma .
The 25-member bloc initially imposed the sanctions in 1996 after Rangoon failed to meet EU demands for democratic reforms .
The EU also wants pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi to be released from house arrest .
Burma 's military rulers are coming under increasing pressure to implement democratic reforms .
There are calls to deny Burma its scheduled chairmanship of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations ( ASEAN ) in 2006 .
Center-left candidate Alvaro Colom is holding the lead as official return are counted from Guatemala 's run-off presidential election .
With ballots from 68 percent of the nation 's polling stations counted Sunday night , Colom had 51.4 percent of the vote , to 41.6 percent for retired General Otto Perez Molina .
Colom and Perez were the top two finishers in the first-round presidential election , in September .
Perez based his campaign on pledges to fight crime and combat drug trafficking .
Colom 's platform focused on poverty issues .
About 50 people died in election-related violence before September 's vote , making it the deadliest political campaign since Guatemala 's 36-year civil war ended in 1996 .
Gunmen in Guatemala City killed a Perez aide last month .
The retired general has linked the killing to his vow to crack down on drug trafficking .
The best-known U.S. stock market index , the Dow Jones Industrial Average , rose higher than ever before Wednesday , passing the 13,000 mark for the first time .
The Dow rose as high as 13,107 during trading , before easing slightly to 13,090 at the close .
Major companies like Amazon and Boeing reported stronger earnings than investors expected , giving them hope these corporations will continue to prosper even though the U.S. economy is slowing down .
The Dow also gained after Alcoa said it might sell parts of its business , and economic reports showed rising orders for manufactured goods and rising sales for new homes .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average is a composite measure of what are called " blue-chip " stocks from the biggest U.S. companies in a variety of industries .
Colombian officials say 552 right-wing paramilitary fighters have turned over their weapons as part of an on-going peace agreement with the government .
Colombia 's Peace Commission says the weapons were turned in at a ceremony Thursday in Santuario , nearly 300 kilometers west of the capital , Bogota .
The militia men were from a group known as the Heroes and Martyrs of Guatica , a faction of the United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia .
Peace Commissioner Luis Carlos Restrepo attended the ceremony , along with other officials .
The commission says more than 13,000 paramilitary fighters have now turned over their weapons and will take part in programs designed to reintegrate the fighters into society .
Colombia has been mired in a nearly 40-year conflict between leftist rebels , rightist paramilitaries and the government .
The conflict leaves thousands of people dead each year .
Crude oil prices fell after some downbeat economic reports pointed to a deeper recession in the United States , which would push energy demand down .
Traders also expect a U.S. government report to show continued growth of oil inventories in the world 's biggest energy market .
The price of a barrel of oil for future delivery fell more than $ 4 to hit $ 41.67 at the close of trading in New York .
Oil has fallen as low as $ 33 a barrel recently , and hit an all-time high above $ 147 a barrel last July .
AIDS activists in South Africa are expressing outrage over testimony by former Deputy President Jacob Zuma at his trial on rape charges .
In court Wednesday , Zuma said he showered after having unprotected sex with his accuser in order to minimize the chance of acquiring AIDS .
Zuma 's 31-year-old accuser has HIV , the virus that causes AIDS .
Zuma is not infected .
He says the sexual contact was consensual .
AIDS activists say Zuma 's testimony undermines the nation 's prevention campaign .
They say it gives the impression that men who do not use a condom during intercourse with HIV-positive women are not at risk .
Some five million people in South Africa suffer from AIDS , the greatest number of any country in the world .
Zuma is the former head of South Africa 's AIDS Council .
South Africa 's government is often accused of not taking AIDS seriously .
Authorities in Japan say they have detected signs of bird flu at a farm north of Tokyo .
Japan 's Kyodo news agency said Monday officials plan to kill 82,000 chickens at the farm .
The farm is in a quarantined area of Ibaraki prefecture , where media reports say approximately 1.5 million birds have already been culled because of past bird-flu outbreaks .
It was not clear if the bird flu detected in Japan was the H5N1 strain of the virus that has killed more than 60 people in Asia over the past two years .
Meanwhile , Vietnam is calling for more international assistance to help it fight avian influenza .
A Vietnamese official asked for help at a meeting of health and disaster officials from the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Brisbane , Australia .
The APEC officials are discussing contingency plans in case H5N1 strain of the bird-flu virus begins spreading between humans .
Iraqi officials say they have a fugitive half-brother and former adviser to ousted president Saddam Hussein in custody .
Authorities have not released details of the arrest of Sabawi Ibrahim al-Hasan .
But there are reports that Syria was involved in the capture .
The Associated Press says Damascus handed over the former intelligence chief early Sunday as a goodwill gesture .
Sabawi Ibrahim al-Hasan was number 36 on a U.S. list of the most wanted people in Iraq .
He had a bounty on his head of one million dollars .
In other developments , a bombing at a police station killed at least five Iraqis Sunday near the northern city of Mosul .
British media report that two British hostages kidnapped in Iraq two years ago are believed to be dead .
Reports say the British Foreign Office told the families of the two last week that it believed the men were dead .
The two were among a group of five Britons who were seized from an Iraqi Finance Ministry building in Baghdad by men disguised as Iraqi police in 2007 .
The bodies of two of the other hostages were handed over to British authorities last month .
The fate of the fifth hostage remains unclear and the Foreign Office says all efforts are being made to secure his release .
A group calling itself the Islamic Shi'ite Resistance in Iraq says it is behind the abductions .
The main Marxist ally of Sri Lanka 's ruling coalition government has quit in protest over a plan to share the distribution of tsunami aid with the Tamil Tiger rebels .
The People 's Liberation Front , popularly known as the JVP , has 39 seats in the 225-seat parliament in which President Chandrika Kumaratunga has only a five-seat majority .
President Kumaratunga wants to share the distribution of tsunami aid with the Tamil Tigers as an opportunity to forge peace with them .
The donors also have insisted on a joint aid-distribution mechanism .
But the JVP and the country 's influential Buddhist monks have opposed the move , saying such an agreement would help the rebels ' cause for a separate state .
Reports from Colombo say the pullout may not bring the government down because the president has secured support of some of the opposition lawmakers in parliament .
Polls are open in all four of the U.S. states holding primary elections today Tuesday as U.S. Senators Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama battle for support for the Democratic Party nomination .
Texas and Ohio are the two key states in Tuesday 's balloting , because they have many more delegates than the small northeastern states of Vermont and Rhode Island .
Delegates choose the party 's nominee for the presidential race .
Clinton lags behind Obama , with 11 straight losses in primaries and caucuses .
Former U.S. President Bill Clinton has said his wife needs to win both Texas and Ohio to keep her campaign alive .
On the Republican side , Senator John McCain seems on the verge of clinching his party 's nomination .
Senator McCain could secure the Republican Party nomination with victories Tuesday .
He has a commanding lead over former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee .
Egypt 's top cleric has angrily condemned those responsible for last week 's terrorist bombings in Sharm el-Sheikh .
Speaking in that Red Sea resort town , the grand imam of the Al-Azhar mosque , Mohammed Sayyed Tantawi , rejected terrorist attacks in the name of Islam .
He said the bombers will be cursed by God .
Egyptian officials say 64 people died in the blasts , but local doctors say the death toll is nearly 90 .
The grand imam called on Egyptians to help find those responsible for the attacks .
Egypt 's President Hosni Mubarak has called for an Arab summit next month in Sharm el-Sheikh to discuss terrorism and other concerns .
Thousands of military personnel from several countries have been deployed to hard-hit areas of the Indian Ocean tsunami .
Worldwide public and private aid pledges now top $ 5 billion , but those contributions do not include the cost of the military personnel that relief workers say are urgently needed to deliver aid to remote areas .
The United Nations-coordinated effort includes 16,000 U.S. forces , 16,000 Indian troops and 350 Australian military personnel .
Pakistan and Spain each plan to deploy some 500 military personnel .
Japan expects to send about 1,000 troops .
Countries as far away as Switzerland , Germany and Russia have contributed aircraft , ships and tons of supplies for the relief effort .
Large so-called " floating hospitals , " capable of purifying water and accommodating hundreds of victims , also have been deployed to the region .
Police in the Iraqi city of Najaf say at least three civilians have been killed in a car bombing Saturday , less than a week after an attack there killed 52 people .
Initial details are sketchy , but police say the incident occurred on the highway between the Shi'ite holy cities of Najaf and Karbala and appeared to have targeted a U.S. military convoy .
There was no word on whether there were U.S. casualties .
Meanwhile , Najaf 's governor says police have arrested a group of men suspected of having organized last Sunday 's attack and an announcement would be made in Baghdad next week .
In Baghdad , it was a bleak Christmas for the city 's small Christian community .
Further unnerved by an apparent suicide attack Christmas Eve that killed nine people , the city 's churches were mostly empty today .
Pakistan has condemned India 's remarks on the escalating violence in Baluchistan province , warning that such statements are unhelpful and will not improve bilateral relations .
India 's Foreign Ministry spokesman Navtej Sarna last week expressed concern over what he called the " spiraling violence " between Pakistani security forces and restive tribesmen in Baluchistan province .
Pakistan 's Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Tasnim Aslam told reporters in Islamabad that India should mind its own business .
In recent weeks , Pakistani army helicopters and ground troops have overrun suspected training bases in Baluchistan thought to be used by militants for attacks on government installations .
Baluch tribesmen have been launching attacks to press their demands for an increase in royalties for resources extracted in their areas .
Ms. Aslam warned that such Indian criticism could weaken attempts by the neighboring countries to resolve bilateral issues , including the long-standing dispute over Kashmir .
Pakistani authorities say gunmen on a motorcycle have killed three Chinese engineers and their Pakistani driver in the troubled southwestern Baluchistan province .
Local police say the drive-by shooting occurred Wednesday in a remote town southeast of the provincial capital , Quetta .
The Associated Press says a tribal militant group , the Baluchistan Liberation Army , claimed responsibility for the attack .
In a separate development , in the North Waziristan tribal region bordering Afghanistan , Pakistani security forces arrested two men late Tuesday on suspicion of links with al-Qaida .
Pakistan 's army has conducted a series of counter-terrorism operations in North and South Waziristan in the past three years , aimed at trapping Arab , Afghan and Central Asian militants with links to the Taliban and al-Qaida .
Cuba has placed two large billboards with pictures of U.S. soldiers abusing Iraqi prisoners near the U.S. mission in Havana -- in apparent retaliation for a dispute over the mission 's Christmas decorations .
The billboards contain photographs of hooded Iraqi detainees from Baghdad 's notorious Abu Ghraib prison , as well as an image of a swastika and the word " fascists . "
There was no immediate reaction from the United States .
The large signs went up Friday , three days after the Cuban government threatened consequences for Christmas decorations displayed outside the offices of the U.S. special interest section .
A U.S. official said Cuba was upset because the decorations include a neon sign with the number " 75 " on it -- a reference to the 75 political dissidents imprisoned in Cuba last year .
Cuba and the United States do not have diplomatic relations .
The full U.S. Senate begins debate Monday on the nomination of John Roberts as chief justice of the United States .
Mr. Roberts appears to have more than enough votes to be confirmed in the Republican-controlled Senate .
At least nine Democrats have pledged their support for the conservative judge , along with all 55 Republican senators .
Confirmation requires a simple majority of the 100 senators .
A final vote is expected to take place Thursday .
With Mr. Roberts ' confirmation virtually assured , many lawmakers are turning their attention to President Bush 's next nomination to the Supreme Court .
Many senators are urging Mr. Bush to pick a moderate candidate to succeed Justice Sandra Day O'Connor , who announced her retirement in July .
Crude oil prices have again hit record highs .
The spike in prices Wednesday came after a U.S. government report said inventories of crude oil and gasoline declined last week .
The Bloomberg financial news service says U.S. crude oil briefly jumped to $ 71.79 a barrel before easing slightly .
In Britain , Brent crude rose to equal Tuesday 's record high of $ 72.64 .
Analysts say prices are being pushed up by worries that oil supplies from Iran and Nigeria might be disrupted by political disputes .
These concerns come at a time of strong demand for oil in the United States , China , and other big nations .
Democratic U.S. Senator Edward Kennedy has urged the government to spend more money on education as millions of students return to school for a new academic year .
Senator Kennedy delivered the Democrats ' weekly radio address Saturday .
He said Democrats want more money for teacher training , small class sizes , early childhood education and college aid .
Mr. Kennedy accused the Bush administration and Republican leaders in Congress of underfunding an education law passed in 2001 called the No Child Left Behind Act .
He said without more money spent on education , America 's national security and competitive standing in the world are at risk .
The senator from Massachusetts is the senior Democrat on the Senate committee that oversees education .
Spain 's top anti-terrorism judge has indicted eight Islamic militants for allegedly helping a suspected mastermind of the September 11 attacks on the United States .
Judge Baltasar Garzon Monday formally charged the eight with providing fake identity papers and other documents to Ramzi Binalshibh .
He is in U.S. custody , suspected of being the contact between al-Qaida and the September 11 hijackers .
One of the suspects charged Monday - Tahar Ezirouali - is still at large and was indicted in absentia .
The International Olympic Committee says a Ukrainian heptathlon silver medalist is under investigation for a positive drug test at the Beijing Olympics .
The IOC said Wednesday it has opened a probe into Lyudmila Blonska , who finished second behind Ukrainian Natalia Dobrynska last Saturday .
The IOC 's disciplinary commission and executive board are expected to rule on the case Thursday .
If found guilty , Blonska would be stripped of her medal and could be subjected to a lifetime ban .
Blonska served a separate doping suspension earlier this decade .
Iraqi police guard site where head of Diyala provincial council Hussein Alwan al-Tamimi was killed in Baquoba A series of suicide car bombings and two-bomb rigged motorcycles killed at least 33 people across northern Iraq Thursday .
The worst attack was on a restaurant in the town of Tuz Khurmatu , where bodyguards of Deputy Prime Minster Rowsch Nouri Shaways were eating .
Twelve people were killed .
Mr. Shaways was not present .
Bombers also struck the gates of a state-run oil firm in Kirkuk and a government convoy in Baquba .
Two parked motorcycles rigged with bombs also exploded outside a cafe in Mosul , killing five people .
Meanwhile , Iraq 's Interior Ministry says 700 terror suspects have been arrested and a huge number of weapons seized so far in a massive security sweep in Baghdad that began Sunday .
Operation Lightning is aimed against Iraqi insurgents .
U.S. crude oil prices have risen to another record high , passing $ 78 a barrel , as violence in the Middle East and Nigeria threatened supplies .
Crude oil for August delivery closed at a record $ 76.7 in New York Thursday .
The price continued to rise in after-hours trading , hitting $ 78.4 .
That is the highest price for oil since the New York Mercantile Exchange began the contract in 1983 .
In early Asian trading Friday crude oil was at $ 77.95 a barrel .
Strong demand for oil leaves little unused oil production capacity anywhere in the world .
The tight balance between supply and demand means any disruption in oil supplies could cause prices to soar .
Chad 's government has acknowledged that its forces crossed into Sudanese territory Monday and clashed with Sudanese troops .
Reversing a previous denial of the incident , Chad 's Information Minister Hourmadji Moussa Doumgor said Tuesday that Chadian troops had crossed the border to pursue rebels they had been fighting in eastern Chad .
He said the clash occurred when Chad 's troops made contact with Sudan 's forces , whom he said had been deployed to protect the rebels ' retreat .
Sudan 's military says 17 of its soldiers were killed in the clash , and that its troops forced the Chadians back across the border .
Chad and Sudan have repeatedly accused each other of supporting the other country 's rebel movements .
Cross-border raids and incidents have continued despite mediation efforts by Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi .
Both countries have refused the deployment of international peacekeepers on their border .
The International Committee of the Red Cross says 15 people have died in ethnic clashes around the western Ivory Coast town of Duekoue .
The agency says at least 6,000 people have fled last week 's violence between between indigenous tribes and migrant farm workers .
The mayor of Duekoue told Reuters news agency that U.N. soldiers are patrolling the town and surrounding villages .
He said shops have reopened and public transportation is resuming .
Ethnic tension is common in the region , but it has been exacerbated by Ivory Coast 's civil war which started in 2002 .
The country remains divided between the rebel-held north , and the government-controlled south .
Bangladesh 's government has brought new corruption charges against detained former Prime Minister Khaleda Zia .
The country 's Anti-Corruption Commission Thursday accused Ms. Zia , her son , Tarique Rahman and five others of embezzling more than $ 3,00,000 ( 21 million taka ) from a trust meant for orphans .
She and her two sons already are being held on other corruption charges .
They were among 170 politicians and business people arrested last year during an anti-graft sweep by Bangladesh 's military-backed caretaker government .
Former Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina also was detained in the crackdown .
She was recently released on parole to receive medical treatment in the U.S.
Ms. Zia 's Bangladesh Nationalist Party has vowed to boycott the country 's parliamentary elections , set for December , unless the former prime minister is released from detention .
China says a fourth person is ill with bird flu .
The official Xinhua news agency reports the ministry of health has confirmed that a 10-year-old girl in China 's southern Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region has the potentially deadly H5N1 virus .
Meanwhile , Ukraine has declared a state of emergency to help combat a bird flu outbreak in Crimea .
More than 22,000 birds have been seized from villages in the affected area .
Also Tuesday , President Bush met with the director-general of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) to discuss the global strategy against a possible bird flu pandemic .
Mr. Bush called the strategy a remarkable collaborative effort .
Earlier , Burma said it is on the alert for bird flu and will cooperate with international organizations in tracking outbreaks of the disease .
Venezuela 's government has promised new measures to combat the country 's inflation rate , which is the highest in the region .
Finance Minister Rodrigo Cabezas said Wednesday that his country 's inflation rate of 22.5 percent is " unsatisfactory . "
He promised new anti-inflationary measures but did not disclose any details .
Meanwhile , Venezuela has begun using a new currency system in an effort to slow the inflation rate .
The " strong bolivar " entered circulation on Tuesday .
It was created by taking three trailing zeros off the value of the former currency , the bolivar .
Officials say the new currency also will simplify transactions .
But critics say they doubt it will stabilize rising prices .
A prominent Russian newspaper says investigators have identified a teenager as one of two suicide bombers responsible for Monday 's attacks that killed 39 people in two Moscow subway stations .
Kommersant said Friday 17-year-old Dzhennet Abdurakhmanova , the widow of a slain Caucasus militant , was one of the bombers .
The newspaper published a photograph of the young woman in a Muslim headscarf with her late husband Umalat Magomedov .
The Kommersant reports authorities have not yet officially identified the second bomber , but she is believed to be 20-year-old Markha Ustarkhanova from Chechnya .
Ustarkhanova is the widow of a Chechen militant who was killed last year while allegedly preparing for an assassination attempt on Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov .
Election results from Colombia show the ruling coalition of President Alvaro Uribe has won a strong majority in the country 's Congress .
With most of the ballots counted from Sunday 's vote , parties loyal to Mr. Uribe are projected to win more than 60 Senate seats in the 102-member upper house .
Colombian voters also selected 166 members of the lower house of Congress .
Mr. Uribe 's coalition fared much better than pollsters had expected , and the results could give a boost to his campaign for re-election in May .
Mr. Uribe is seeking a second four-year term as president to continue the struggle against the leftist guerilla group FARC ( the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia ) .
He called on the FARC to abandon its four-decade old insurgency and resume the stalled peace process .
Sunday 's congressional elections were largely peaceful , and polling stations were protected by a large security force of 2,00,000 troops .
The U.S. military is fighting efforts to release more photos and videotapes that document the abuse of detainees at Iraq 's Abu Ghraib prison .
General Richard Myers , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , warns that releasing the images would inflame Arab opinion and put U.S. troops at risk .
He also argues that al-Qaida and other groups would use the photos for propaganda .
General Myers ' statements were contained in recently-unsealed court papers filed in U.S. district court in New York City .
The American Civil Liberties Union has sued the government for the release of 87 photos and four videotapes taken at the U.S.-run Abu Ghraib prison .
The group says release of the images will lead to a public examination of Army interrogation policies .
Photos from Abu Ghraib released last year showed Iraqi detainees with leashes around their necks and in other humiliating positions .
U.S.-led forces in Afghanistan say they killed 15 militants during an overnight operation in the east , while local officials says those killed were civilians .
In a statement Saturday , coalition forces say their troops were targeting Taliban militants in Laghman province when they came under attack .
It says the troops returned fire , killing 15 militants , including a woman carrying a rocket-propelled grenade .
Local officials dispute the account and say as many as 22 civilians were killed .
India and Pakistan have opened a third crossing at the Line of Control that divides Kashmir to provide aid to victims of last month 's devastating earthquake .
Officials from the two countries opened the river crossing Saturday to allow passage of relief goods in both directions .
Earlier this week India delayed opening the third crossing because it said the Pakistani army had not completed work on a border bridge .
But Pakistani spokesman disputed the claim , saying his side was ready to open .
The two nations agreed last month to open five border crossings in Kashmir to facilitate aid flow and to allow quake survivors to reunite with family members on the other side .
Pro-Taleban militants have captured 24 soldiers from a military checkpoint in northwestern Pakistan .
Police say more than 150 militants attacked the post Monday night near the town of Bannu , in the restive North Waziristan region .
Officials say the militants captured the soldiers after heavy gunfire .
Last month , officials said pro-Taleban militants released at least 25 of nearly 250 Pakistani soldiers held captive near the Afghan border since late August .
Pakistan is struggling to contain a recent upsurge in violence in its northwestern region following the collapse of a peace deal in July between the government and pro-Taleban tribesmen .
Tidal waves caused by the massive Asian earthquake have killed at least 10 people on Africa 's east coast with a number of other tourists and residents reported missing .
Authorities from Somalia to South Africa and the Indian Ocean islands have urged people to move inland .
At least one death is reported in Kenya while the Associated Press reports nine drowned in Somalia .
High waves have also smashed a number of fishing boats and left parts of the island of Rodrigues under water .
Egypt has freed a blogger who served a four-year prison term on a conviction of insulting Islam and Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak .
Human rights groups and a relative said Wednesday that Egyptian security officials freed Abdel Kareem Nabil earlier this week .
The Cairo-based Arabic Network for Human Rights and Information says he was beaten while in detention .
Nabil , who is also known as Kareem Amer , was attending a university before authorities convicted him in 2006 .
He was the first blogger in Egypt to be sentenced specifically for his writings .
Last week , human rights groups called for his release , saying he had been held beyond his four-year prison sentence .
Egyptian officials have not explained why he remained imprisoned about a week-and-a-half beyond his term .
The Reporters Without Borders rights group says Amer was subjected to " appalling conditions " while in detention and that he has described being tortured .
Russian President Vladimir Putin has arrived in Beijing to begin a two-day state visit likely to focus on China 's energy needs and bilateral investments .
Mr. Putin , at the head of a large delegation of business leaders and top officials , landed at Beijing International Airport Tuesday and was expected to meet with Chinese President Hu Jintao later in the day .
In addition to energy and other industrial issues , the two leaders are expected to discuss disputes over the Iranian and North Korean nuclear programs .
As permanent members of the U.N. Security Council , both Russia and China are playing a key role in the current diplomatic efforts to resolve the dispute over Tehran 's nuclear ambitions .
The two countries also participate in six-nation disarmament talks on North Korea 's nuclear program , along with the United States , the two Koreas and Japan .
Iraq 's national assembly met Tuesday for only the second time since its election in January , but the session ended in chaos when lawmakers failed to agree on a parliament speaker .
The meeting began nearly three hours late , with the chairman 's announcement that Sunni Muslim deputies had failed to nominate a speaker from among their ranks .
He then declared the session over and said a vote would not take place before Sunday .
Several of the assembly 's 275-members immediately called for an explanation , with one legislator asking , " what shall we tell the voters ? " Outgoing interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi stormed out in frustration , and the media were expelled .
Meanwhile , in the northern city of Kirkuk , a car bomb explosion killed one person and injured at least a dozen others .
Separately , three Romanian journalists were reported kidnapped .
Pakistan 's chief justice has formally resumed his post , two years after his controversial dismissal threw the country into political turmoil .
The Supreme Court says Iftikhar Mohammed Chaudhry was reinstated at midnight ( Saturday ) and immediately began work Sunday morning .
The independent-minded judge was fired in 2007 by then-President Pervez Musharraf , after pursuing a case challenging the president 's rule .
Chaudhry 's dismissal sparked widespread protests that helped force Mr. Musharraf to resign last year .
Mr. Musharraf 's successor , Asif Ali Zardari , faced a new wave of protests after he delayed Chaudhry 's reinstatement .
Pakistan 's government relented to activists ' demands last week , however , reappointing Chaudhry in an effort to end a volatile political stand-off with the opposition .
Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani traveled to the Lahore area Sunday to meet opposition leader Nawaz Sharif in a further attempt at political reconciliation .
The Iraqi government has ordered the pan-Arab satellite network Al-Arabiya to close its bureau in Baghdad for one month .
Iraqi officials are quoted as saying the ban is because of what they have described as the network 's uneven reporting and unprofessional conduct in covering events in Iraq .
Dubai-based Al-Arabiya was briefly banned in November 2003 after airing an audiotape from Saddam Hussein .
The U.S.-backed interim Iraqi government banned the Arabic satellite network Al-Jazeera in 2004 for allegedly inciting violence .
Tropical Storm Epsilon has been upgraded to a hurricane , a record 14th for this year .
Forecasters said Friday that Epsilon is east of Bermuda and is not expected to hit land .
The six-month hurricane season officially ended November 30 , the busiest period on record .
With 26 named storms , forecasters used up their list of designated names and resorted to marking the storms with letters of the Greek alphabet .
The season was also unusually intense .
Three hurricanes briefly reached the most violent Category Five status , with Katrina devastating New Orleans and other parts of the U.S. Gulf coast .
Some experts believe the intensity marks the beginning of a cycle expected to last more than a decade .
Experts say the mass exodus of people from the devastated Gulf Coast region is unprecedented in American history .
Federal officials say up to one million people , mostly from New Orleans , have been displaced in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina .
More than 2,00,000 victims have taken refuge in nearby Texas , while others are scattered in cities and towns from California to New York City .
War , economic disaster , religious and social persecution and natural catastrophes have forced large populations to relocate many times in American history .
Experts say this time , however , the migration of hundreds of thousands from New Orleans and the U.S. Gulf Coast is completely different - as the newly homeless are coming from one of America 's most unique and diverse cities , and it is happening over a much shorter period of time .
Iraqi authorities say car bombs in Baghdad and the northern city of Kirkuk killed 62 people Sunday .
They say the deadliest blast occurred in Baghdad 's Sadr City neighborhood when a bomb killed 34 near a busy market .
A short time later , another blast killed eight more people outside a municipal building .
The bombings came hours after U.S. and Iraqi government forces raided the district and clashed with militiamen loyal to radical Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr .
To the north , a car bomb killed 20 people and wounded 50 others near a courthouse in Kirkuk Sunday .
On Saturday , Iraqi political and religious leaders met to discuss Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki 's national reconciliation plan to end sectarian violence .
After the meeting , Mr. Maliki said insurgents guilty of bloodshed should not be included in his proposed amnesty .
Mr. Maliki will visit Washington Tuesday for talks with President Bush .
The U.S. military has drafted a document that calls for nuclear strikes against nations or terrorist groups to prevent them from using weapons of mass destruction against the United States or its allies .
The document ( " Doctrine for Joint Nuclear Operations " ) was drafted in March .
It updates a 1995 version from the Clinton administration to reflect President Bush 's doctrine of pre-emptive military strikes against nations or groups posing a threat to the United States .
The document outlines a number of scenarios for the use of nuclear weapons , which would require the approval of the president .
The revised draft has yet to become official policy .
The document envisions the use of earth-penetrating nuclear weapons to destroy deeply buried weapons .
The Bush administration has been looking to develop the so-called " bunker-busters , " but U.S. Congress stopped funding the program last year .
The Organization of American States has rejected Colombia 's recent raid against a rebel camp in Ecuador , saying the cross-border incursion was a clear violation of the OAS charter .
In a resolution after a meeting of foreign ministers and ambassadors that began Monday , the OAS also took note of Colombia 's apology for the incursion and its pledge to not carry out another raid .
Venezuela and Ecuador responded to the March 1 incursion by taking diplomatic action against Colombia and sending troops to the border with Colombia .
The leaders of all three countries have since said they have settled the crisis .
The raid killed more than 20 rebels with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , including a top rebel leader .
A Vatican delegation is meeting with officials in Iran this week to discuss ways of strengthening interfaith ties .
The visit , led by Cardinal Jean-Louis Tauran , is part of an ongoing attempt by the Vatican to reach out to the largely Muslim Islamic Republic .
Pope Benedict met last year with a delegation of Catholic bishops from Iran and said he wanted to improve relations with the Islamic Republic .
Tauran met with Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on Tuesday .
Vatican delegation members will also visit the city of Qom , a Shi'ite spiritual center in Iran , before wrapping up their trip Wednesday .
The Zaragoza airport in northern Spain was evacuated Wednesday morning after it received threats made in the name of the Basque separatist group ETA .
Officials say they received word that a rocket launcher had been set up to carry out an attack during a two-hour period at midday ( 800 to 1000 GMT ) .
ETA staged a rocket attack on the Zaragoza airport back in June , but no one was hurt .
ETA has been blamed for more than 800 deaths since the 1960s when it began its armed campaign for an independent Basque state in northern Spain and southwestern France .
Russia is promising to follow through on a pledge to forgive $ 2.2 billion in debt owed by African nations .
Russia 's ambassador to the United Nations , Andrey Denisov , told a U.N. ministerial meeting focusing on the fight against poverty Tuesday that Moscow wants to underline its general support to the Group of Eight industrial nations .
The group 's finance ministers decided to cancel more than $ 40 billion in debt owed by 18 mostly African nations at a meeting in London earlier this month .
Under the agreement , the 18 countries would receive immediate relief on debt they owe to the World Bank , the International Monetary Fund and other lenders .
Nine other African nations are likely to qualify for debt relief soon .
Nepalese army officials say the kingdom 's Maoist rebels killed four people and injured at least 11 in two separate attacks Monday .
Officials say three soldiers and one civilian died in a clash at an army checkpoint about 30 kilometers from the capital , Kathmandu .
Police said at least 11 people were injured when a bomb exploded in a market in Pokhara , about 200 kilometers west of the capital .
On Sunday , government troops killed at least 16 Maoists following a rebel assault on a security patrol in western Nepal .
At least five soldiers were wounded .
Rebel attacks have increased since The Maoists broke a ceasefire last month .
They are fighting to establish a single party communist republic .
About 13,000 people have been killed in the fighting .
France 's lower house of parliament has approved a new anti-terrorism bill that includes increasing the use of video surveillance .
The National Assembly voted 373 to 27 in favor of the legislation .
The bill now requires approval by the Senate , which begins debate in January .
The draft law extends the detention period without charges for terrorism suspects from four days to six days .
It also provides for an increase of video surveillance in French subways , airports and train stations , and requires Internet cafes to keep more detailed information about their clients .
Critics of the bill say it will erode basic civil liberties .
Insurgents in Iraq have intensified their campaign of pre-election violence , killing two aides to the country 's highest Shi'ite authority , Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani .
Sheikh Mahmoud al-Madai'ni , his son and four bodyguards , were gunned down Wednesday as they left evening prayers south of Baghdad in Salman Pak .
Another aide was found dead in the ayatollah 's office in Najaf .
Ayatollah al-Sistani is not a candidate in the January 30 polls , but he supports the United Iraqi Alliance , a mainly Shi'ite coalition that is likely to win a large number of seats in the national assembly .
Meanwhile , gunmen opened fire on a minibus outside a Baghdad hotel Thursday , killing six people and kidnapping a Turkish businessman .
And near the town of Baquba , police say three people were killed and at least 13 others were hurt in a car bombing outside a Shi'ite mosque .
Venezuela and Mexico are recalling each others ambassadors , amid an escalating dispute between the countries ' presidents .
Venezuela has ordered the withdrawal of its ambassador to Mexico .
Mexican President Vicente Fox said on U.S. television ( CNN ) Monday that his country would also recall its ambassador .
Mr. Fox said he will not accept verbal attacks made on him by Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez .
Mr. Chavez used his Sunday radio and television show to criticize Mr. Fox after last week 's Summit of the Americas , saying Mr. Fox was the U.S. government 's " cub " for supporting a U.S.-proposed Western Hemisphere free trade zone .
Today , Venezuela 's Foreign Minister Ali Rodriguez rejected Mexico 's demand that Venezuela apologize for the comments .
Pakistani officials say troops backed by fighter aircraft pounded three militant hideouts Sunday in northwestern Pakistan , killing at least 10 suspected insurgents in the troubled Orakzai tribal district .
The assault came a day after fighter jets bombed a militant stronghold in the neighboring Khyber tribal region on the Afghan border , killing 45 people .
Pakistani officials said Saturday 's strike took place in the valley of Tirah .
Khyber is the main supply route for NATO troops through Pakistan into Afghanistan .
Militants are blamed for frequent attacks on NATO convoys traveling through the region .
Pakistan 's military has recently stepped up offensives in Khyber and Orakzai .
Officials say more than 300 militants have been killed so far in the fighting .
Afghanistan 's election officials have again postponed the announcement of final results of the September 18 parliamentary elections .
The Joint Electoral Management Body says claims of widespread fraud in southern Afghanistan are delaying the results that were expected Wednesday , but now will be announced " in the next few days . "
Based on provisional results declared last month , the 249-seat Lower House will be dominated by former warlords and Mujahedin fighters .
The country 's first parliament in decades will also have several members of the ousted Taleban regime as well as more than 60 women legislators , who were declared provisional winners .
Meanwhile , a roadside bomb exploded near a U.N. convoy in southern Kandahar province , damaging an armored vehicle but causing no injuries .
Two suspects have been arrested .
U.S.-led coalition forces prevented another attack by discovering a bomb near the eastern city of Jalalabad .
The press freedom group Reporters Without Borders has condemned the decision by Venezuelan President Hugh Chavez to shut down one of the country 's oldest television stations The group issued a statement Friday calling the move " a serious attack against editorial pluralism . "
Mr. Chavez announced Thursday that his government will not renew the broadcast license for Radio Caracas Television , or RCTV .
The station is one of Venezuela 's main private stations and has been critical of the president .
Mr. Chavez accused RCTV of plotting against him .
He also said he will not tolerate any media outlets that support efforts to remove him from power .
The license for RCTV expires in March .
Reporters Without Borders urged Venezuela 's government to reconsider its stance and guarantee an independent system of granting and renewing broadcast rights .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai is considering holding presidential elections in April , four months earlier than an election date set by the country 's Independent Election Commission .
Afghanistan 's constitution requires that the presidential election be held by April 21 , one month before Mr. Karzai 's five-year term expires .
Last month , Afghan election chief , Azizullah Lodin , said the commission decided to reschedule the vote for August to give incoming U.S. forces time to stabilize the country .
But opposition leaders have insisted that Mr. Karzai step down when his term expires in May and install a caretaker government .
U.S. support for the embattled president came into question after the Obama administration openly accused Mr. Karzai of failing to crack down on government corruption .
Democratic U.S. Senator Joseph Biden of Delaware has announced he is seeking his party 's 2008 presidential nomination .
Biden announced his intention to enter the race on American television Wednesday .
Biden is currently the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and is a prominent critic of President Bush 's Iraq war strategy .
On his campaign web site , the senator highlights his plan for Iraq , which calls for most U.S. troops to withdraw by the end of 2007 .
Biden has served in the U.S. Senate for more than 30 years .
He lost a previous bid for the Democratic nomination in 1988 .
More candidates are expected to join the race to be the Democratic Party 's nominee , a field that has been dominated so far by popular senators Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama .
Dozens of U.S. Christian missionaries have left their posts in Venezuela 's jungle ahead of a government order to leave the area .
The New Tribes Mission said it had withdrawn all of its missionaries from Venezuelan tribal areas , where the evangelical group had been active for decades .
A spokeswoman for the group , Nita Zelenak , told VOA news Sunday that 35 adults and 19 children have left the tribal areas .
Some returned to the United States and others have moved to other locations in Venezuela .
In November , Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez gave the group a February 12 deadline to leave .
He accused the missionaries of having links to the CIA and abusing indigenous groups .
The New Tribes Mission denies the accusations .
The group has filed a legal challenge to the expulsion order .
U.S. and European naval officials say pirates have hijacked two European-owned tanker ships off the coast of Somalia .
The officials say a Greek-owned chemical tanker , the MV Nipayia , was seized late Wednesday with 19 crew members on board .
They say pirates seized the Norwegian-owned MV Bow Asir on Thursday .
That ship is said to have a crew of at least 23 .
Both hijackings occurred off Somalia 's eastern coast , in the Indian Ocean .
Somali pirates seized more than 40 ships during 2008 and received millions of dollars in ransom payments in a hijacking spree .
The hijackings have become less frequent since the United States , China , Russia and other nations began conducting anti-piracy patrols in the waters near Somalia .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez and Iranian President Mohammad Khatami took turns attacking the United States Friday in Caracas during a state visit by the Iranian leader .
In a speech to Venezuela 's National Assembly , Mr. Chavez declared that Iran has every right to develop atomic energy , and promised to oppose any U.S. efforts to stop Iran .
Washington accuses Iran of secretly developing nuclear weapons .
In Mr. Khatami 's speech to the lawmakers , he denounced terrorism while condemning what he called " crimes of liberty , " specifically citing the U.S. Abu Ghraib prison scandal in Iraq and ongoing detentions at the U.S. naval base in Guantanamo , Cuba .
On other issues , the presidents of two oil producing countries signed a number of cooperation agreements relating to oil , taxes , commerce and construction .
Iraqi security officials say an explosives-packed motorcycle blew up in Baghdad
Thursday , killing at least four people and wounding nearly 20 others .
Police say the blast occurred in the Shorja market area of central Baghdad .
On Wednesday , the U.S. military said Iraqi and American troops killed at least 30 insurgents and detained 27 suspects during fierce fighting in city 's the Haifa Street region , known as a Sunni Arab stronghold In another operation in Baghdad , the U.S. military says troops detained 10 terrorists after witnesses reported seeing men loading weapons into a car .
They also seized four weapons caches .
And the U.S. military says an American soldier was killed in a Baghdad operation Wednesday .
Separately , the U.S. military announced the deaths of two Marines killed Tuesday in combat operations in al-Anbar province , west of the capital .
Lebanese forces have unearthed a mass grave in an eastern town that was the headquarters of Syrian intelligence in Lebanon for nearly three decades .
The remains of at least 20 people were exhumed Saturday in the Bekaa Valley town of Anjar .
Officials said the bodies had been buried for years and that the remains - mostly bones - would be sent for DNA testing in an effort to identify them .
Residents in the town discovered the grave and informed Lebanese authorities .
Syria was the main power broker in Lebanon until April , when it withdrew its remaining 15,000 troops under intense international pressure after the assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
An ongoing U.N. investigation has implicated top Syrian officials in the murder , but Damascus has denied any role .
The United States and the European Union have urged Ethiopians to reduce tensions and follow political processes to resolve an election crisis .
A joint U.S. and EU statement Wednesday commended the Ethiopian people for the peaceful May 15 vote , but warned all parties to renounce violence and refrain from inflaming ethnic tensions .
The election outcome remains undecided , and charges of electoral fraud sparked anti-government protests last month in which 36 people were killed .
The statement urged full participation in the official inquiry into the allegations of fraud in 140 constituencies .
Wednesday 's statement also called on all Ethiopian political parties , including the Ethiopian People 's Democratic Front ( EPRDF ) , the Coalition for Unity and Democracy ( CUD ) and the United Ethiopian Democratic Forces ( UEDF ) , to respect the National Election Board and to continue working for democracy .
Authorities in Afghanistan say they have arrested four foreigners suspected of plotting terrorist attacks .
Government officials say the four men - one from Iran and three from Pakistan - were picked up after they crossed illegally into Afghanistan 's Nimroz province from neighboring Iran this week .
At least one of the suspects was believed to be headed to Kandahar province in southern Afghanistan .
Officials in Kabul and Kandahar say the four men are suspected terrorists , but gave no details about their targets or methods .
Attacks by militants have increased in Afghanistan in recent months , primarily in southern and eastern regions where U.S.-led coalition forces are hunting remnants of the Taleban and al-Qaida fighters .
Afghan authorities have blamed the increase in suicide attacks and car-bomb explosions on foreign insurgents .
A team of Dutch researchers says vaccinating chickens against bird flu can prevent a major outbreak of the disease by preventing transmission from bird to bird .
The finding was published in the American scientific journal , Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences .
Scientist Jeanet Van der Goot said the study showed vaccination reduced the infectiousness of chickens with avian flu as well as reducing the susceptibility of healthy chickens .
The study concludes that vaccination can be an attractive tool to prevent outbreaks of bird flu in poultry , thereby eliminating a source of human infections .
The Dutch study was conducted using a strain of the virus different from the H5N1 strain that has caused human fatalities .
The study says it takes about two weeks from the date of inoculation for a vaccine to protect a flock .
Part of the Norwegian Kingdom of the Hebrides until the 13th century when it was ceded to Scotland , the isle came under the British crown in 1765 .
Current concerns include reviving the almost extinct Manx Gaelic language .
Isle of Man is a British crown dependency but is not part of the UK or of the European Union .
However , the UK Government remains constitutionally responsible for its defense and international representation .
The colonial boundaries created by Britain to delimit Uganda grouped together a wide range of ethnic groups with different political systems and cultures .
These differences prevented the establishment of a working political community after independence was achieved in 1962 .
The dictatorial regime of Idi AMIN ( 1971 - 79 ) was responsible for the deaths of some 3,00,000 opponents ; guerrilla war and human rights abuses under Milton OBOTE ( 1980 - 85 ) claimed at least another 1,00,000 lives .
The rule of Yoweri MUSEVENI since 1986 has brought relative stability and economic growth to Uganda .
During the 1990s , the government promulgated non-party presidential and legislative elections .
Tanzania is one of the world 's poorest economies in terms of per capita income , however , Tanzania average 7 % GDP growth per year between 2000 and 2008 on strong gold production and tourism .
The economy depends heavily on agriculture , which accounts for more than 40 % of GDP , provides 85 % of exports , and employs about 80 % of the work force .
The World Bank , the IMF , and bilateral donors have provided funds to rehabilitate Tanzania 's aging economic infrastructure , including rail and port infrastructure that are important trade links for inland countries .
Recent banking reforms have helped increase private-sector growth and investment , and the government has increased spending on agriculture to 7 % of its budget .
Continued donor assistance and solid macroeconomic policies supported a positive growth rate , despite the world recession .
In 2008 , Tanzania received the world 's largest Millennium Challenge Compact grant , worth $ 698 million .
Dar es Salaam used fiscal stimulus and loosened monetary policy to ease the impact of the global recession .
GDP growth in 2009 - 10 was a respectable 6 % per year due to high gold prices and increased production .
Formerly an independent kingdom , Madagascar became a French colony in 1896 but regained independence in 1960 .
During 1992 - 93 , free presidential and National Assembly elections were held ending 17 years of single-party rule .
In 1997 , in the second presidential race , Didier RATSIRAKA , the leader during the 1970s and 1980s , was returned to the presidency .
The 2001 presidential election was contested between the followers of Didier RATSIRAKA and Marc RAVALOMANANA , nearly causing secession of half of the country .
In April 2002 , the High Constitutional Court announced RAVALOMANANA the winner .
RAVALOMANANA achieved a second term following a landslide victory in the generally free and fair presidential elections of 2006 .
In early 2009 , protests over increasing restrictions on opposition press and activities resulted in RAVALOMANANA stepping down and the presidency was conferred to the mayor of Antananarivo , Andry RAJOELINA .
Following negotiations in July and August of 2009 , a power-sharing agreement with a 15-month transitional period was established , but has not yet been implemented .
Tunisia has a diverse economy , with important agricultural , mining , tourism , and manufacturing sectors .
Governmental control of economic affairs while still heavy has gradually lessened over the past decade with increasing privatization , simplification of the tax structure , and a prudent approach to debt .
Progressive social policies also have helped raise living conditions in Tunisia relative to the region .
Real growth , which averaged almost 5 % over the past decade , declined to 4.6 % in 2008 and to 03-Apr % in 2009 - 10 because of economic contraction and slowing of import demand in Europe - Tunisia 's largest export market .
However , development of non-textile manufacturing , a recovery in agricultural production , and strong growth in the services sector somewhat mitigated the economic effect of slowing exports .
Tunisia will need to reach even higher growth levels to create sufficient employment opportunities for an already large number of unemployed as well as the growing population of university graduates .
The challenges ahead include : privatizing industry , liberalizing the investment code to increase foreign investment , improving government efficiency , reducing the trade deficit , and reducing socioeconomic disparities in the impoverished south and west .
A FATHER , being on the point of death , wished to be sure that his sons would give the same attention to his farm as he himself had given it .
He called them to his bedside and said , " My sons , there is a great treasure hid in one of my vineyards . "
The sons , after his death , took their spades and mattocks and carefully dug over every portion of their land .
They found no treasure , but the vines repaid their labor by an extraordinary and superabundant crop .
A CERTAIN rich man bought in the market a Goose and a Swan .
He fed the one for his table and kept the other for the sake of its song .
When the time came for killing the Goose , the cook went to get him at night , when it was dark , and he was not able to distinguish one bird from the other .
By mistake he caught the Swan instead of the Goose .
The Swan , threatened with death , burst forth into song and thus made himself known by his voice , and preserved his life by his melody .
AN EAGLE stayed his flight and entreated a Lion to make an alliance with him to their mutual advantage .
The Lion replied , " I have no objection , but you must excuse me for requiring you to find surety for your good faith , for how can I trust anyone as a friend who is able to fly away from his bargain whenever he pleases ? '
Try before you trust .
A D.C. federal judge has ruled that begging is a form of free speech protected by the Constitution .
The U.S. government says it 's a crime to give FALSE weather reports .
In Washington D.C. it is illegal to post a notice in public which calls another person a ' coward ' for refusing to accept a challenge to duel .
William Joy ( 37 ) , of Cookstown , Co. Tyrone , is paralysed from the waist down and confined to a wheelchair as a result of a fall from a bar stool in 1989 .
The High Court in Belfast heard during the week that Mr. Joy is suing Michael Newell , the man who owned the bar in which the accident occurred , for damages .
He claims that Mr. Newell was negligent for allowing him to sit on a 3 foot high stool while drunk .
Two new studies offer good news to those with high blood pressure .
The best part is the drugs are already available .
VOA 's Carol Pearson has more .
U.S. federal prosecutors are conducting a criminal investigation into the levee failures that led to widespread flooding in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina .
The office of U.S. Attorney Jim Letten says it is examining possible corruption in the flood barriers ' design , construction and maintenance .
Mr. Letten said Wednesday that some public officials were found to have " undisclosed conflicts of interest , " and that his office is " extremely concerned about those . "
New Orleans FBI agent James Bernazzani said federal agents have received numerous tips about possible misconduct related to the levees .
Louisiana state and local officials are also investigating the levee failures .
At the peak of the flooding , some 80 percent of New Orleans was underwater .
It took engineers several weeks to dry out the city , most of which sits below sea level .
NATO officials say alliance troops Friday raided the home of Mladjen Kenjic , a suspected backer of fugitive wartime Bosnian Serb military commander General Ratko Mladic .
A NATO spokesman says troops searched his home in the village of Vojkovici , just outside Sarajevo .
News reports identify Mr. Kenjic as a former member of General Mladic 's personal security team .
The Hague tribunal indicted General Mladic on genocide and other charges for attacks against civilians during the 1990 's conflict in Bosnia-Herzegovina .
Kosovo police say an explosion during a protest by ethnic Serbs has wounded about a dozen people in an ethnically divided town .
The cause of the blast was not immediately clear .
Officials say Friday 's demonstration was called to protest the opening of a Kosovo government office in Mitrovica .
The town remains deeply spit and is fraught with tension between Serbs and ethnic Albanians , more than two years after Kosovo declared independence from Serbia .
The United States is a key supporter of Kosovo 's independence , and has maintained a peacekeeping force of more than 1,400 troops there since the country 's declaration of independence .
The U.S. detachment is part of a 10,000-strong NATO-EU force that along with some 2,000 police , judges and prosecutors are deployed in Kosovo to help the country develop democratic institutions .
The U.S. embassy in Nairobi has warned that Somali-based militants may attempt to kidnap Americans and other Westerners from Kenya 's tourist beaches .
An embassy statement Friday said there were indications that extremists might target Westerners at Kiwayu Island and other popular resorts along Kenya 's northeastern coast , near the Somali border .
The warning is based on a tip Kenyan police passed along to embassy officials .
Kenya closed its border with Somalia in January during fighting that pitted Islamic militia against Somali government troops and their Ethiopian allies .
The U.S. blames the al-Qaida terrorist network for the 1998 attack that destroyed its embassy in Nairobi and for a 2002 car bombing of a beachfront hotel in southeastern Kenya .
The U.S. military launched strikes on suspected al-Qaida targets in Somalia earlier this year .
Cambodia 's military court has laid more charges against two former Khmer Rouge leaders awaiting trial for genocide .
Military chief Ta Mok , and the head of the Tuol Sleng interrogation center , Duch , have been charged with genocide and crimes against humanity .
The new charges allow the two to be held for another three years without trial .
Both men were originally jailed in 1999 and charged with genocide , which meant they could be held for three years without trial .
In 2002 , they were charged with crimes against humanity to prevent their release .
The United Nations is trying to raise $ 56 million to fund a genocide tribunal .
None of the leaders of the Khmer Rouge has ever been brought to trial .
A Mexican court has reduced the prison sentences of two brothers who were convicted of heading a drug cartel that smuggled tons of methamphetamine into the United States .
Jose de Jesus Amezcua Thursday had a 53-year prison sentence reduced to 28 years .
His brother , Adan , had his sentence cut from 22 years to nine-and-a-half years .
No reason was given for the reduction in sentences .
The original sentences were handed down in September of last year .
Authorities say the brothers , dubbed the " methamphetamine kings , " led a drug ring that imported chemical ingredients from Europe , India and Pakistan , and manufactured the stimulant for export to the United States .
A court in the U.S. state of California has indicted Jose de Jesus Amezcua and another brother , Luis , on drug charges .
Mexican authorities have refused to extradite the brothers .
Exit polling shows the economy to be the most pressing concern on U.S. voters ' minds .
Some 60 percent of voters Tuesday named the troubled economy as the most important issue facing the nation .
That finding was mirrored in two separate surveys of voters who had cast their ballots , conducted by CNN and the Associated Press .
No other issue was named the most important by more than one in 10 Americans .
In CNN 's polling , 10 percent named Iraq as the top issue , while terrorism and health care were the most important for nine percent .
Exit polling on voters ' preferences for president will not be released until voting stations begin to close .
Colombian President Alvaro Uribe says he is willing to send officials to a neutral area to negotiate the swap of government-held rebels for rebel-held hostages .
During a speech Friday in Bogota , Mr. Uribe said international observers should go to the yet-to-be-announced meeting zone , an area he said should be free of weapons .
Wednesday , French President Nicolas Sarkozy appealed to the leftist FARC rebels to release some 45 hostages , including French-Colombian politician Ingrid Betancourt and three Americans .
Talks between the Colombian government and the rebels had been stalled over proposals to swap the hostages for about 500 FARC prisoners being held in Colombian jails .
President Sarkozy 's appeal this week was apparently prompted by a recent videotape of the hostages which showed Betancourt looking extremely gaunt and despondent .
A former Colombian presidential candidate , Betancourt was kidnapped in February 2002 .
Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian says he plans to join a rally Saturday in Taipei to protest China 's threat to use force against the island if it formally declares independence .
The protest is being held amid this week 's one-year anniversary of China 's approval of an anti-secession law .
The law says China will employ " non-peaceful means " to prevent Taiwan 's independence if efforts at peaceful reunification fail .
China and Taiwan split in 1949 after a civil war , but Beijing considers Taiwan a renegade province .
Mr. Chen angered Beijing last month when he decided to stop funding a unification council and scrap guidelines for reunification with China .
Hobart Boulevard Elementary School is located in a poor Los Angeles neighborhood , infested with gangs and drugs .
Yet in a fifth grade classroom , children of immigrants , many who speak English as a second language , are learning important life lessons thanks to one teacher and the works of William Shakespeare .
VOA 's Yi Suli introduces us to a group of young thespians who are known around the world as the " Hobart Shakespeareans . "
In Afghanistan , a suicide bomber dressed in a military uniform has blown himself up outside an army training center in Kabul killing 10 people , including himself , and wounding at least 28 others .
An Afghan Defense Ministry spokesman , Mohammed Zaher Azimi , said the blast came as officers and soldiers were leaving the training center at the end of the day and were waiting for buses to take them home .
A purported Taleban spokesman , Abdul Latif Hakimi , claimed responsibility for the deadly attack .
He identified the bomber as Kabul resident Sardar Mohammad .
President Hamid Karzai condemned the attack in " the strongest terms " and ordered an immediate investigation .
Also Wednesday , three people were killed and at least four others wounded in a landmine blast in Kunar province bordering Pakistan .
People in Georgia are voting Thursday to choose more than 1,700 members of municipal and regional councils .
The local elections are seen as a test of support for President Mikhail Saakashvili 's National Movement and its pro-Western stance .
The election originally focused on local issues , but may now be seen as a barometer of Mr. Saakashvili 's performance in his standoff with Russia following last week 's arrest of four Russian officers accused of spying .
The Russian government has severed transport and postal links with Tbilisi , cutting an economic lifeline for hundreds of thousands of Georgians dependent on relatives living in Russia .
Since coming to power in the 2003 Rose Revolution , Mr. Saakashvili has sought to forge closer ties with the European Union and United States .
Additionally , Georgia has long accused Russia of interfering in its internal affairs by backing separatists in two breakaway areas of the country - Abkhazia and South Ossetia .
An advisory panel for a U.S. government health agency recommends greatly increasing the number of American children who receive the influenza immunization each year .
The panel suggests every child from age six months to 18 years receive a flu shot .
The new guideline would expand by some 30 million the number of young people who should be vaccinated .
Leta Hong Fincher has more .
Philippine communist guerrillas say they will not observe the usual Christmas ceasefire with the government .
Spokesman Gregorio Rosal for two communist groups ( the New People 's Army and the Communist Party of the Philippines ) said Thursday there is no point in a truce , and accused government forces of murdering allied leftists .
The Philippine military had recommended a unilateral ceasefire for Christmas Day ( December 25 ) and New Year 's Day , pending approval by President Gloria Arroyo .
The government and communist rebels have been engaged in armed conflict for more than 40 years .
Media reports in the United States say the Central Intelligence Agency has closed a unit that was devoted to tracking international terrorist leader Osama bin Laden and his top lieutenants .
The New York Times Tuesday published a report quoting officials who confirmed that the unit was disbanded last year , and that its analysts were reassigned within the agency 's counterterrorism center .
Initial news of the unit 's closure was reported on National Public Radio Monday .
The Times quotes a CIA spokeswoman , Jennifer Millerwise Dyck , as saying bin Laden 's capture remains a high priority .
Intelligence officials say the unit closure reflects a view that al-Qaida is not as hierarchical as it once was , and that terrorists may be carrying out attacks independent of bin Laden .
The Times reports that the disbanded unit , known as Alec Station , operated for a decade just outside Washington , and was staffed by 24 people .
Russian officials say jailed oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky has been sent to a prison colony in eastern Siberia to serve out the rest of his eight-year sentence for financial crimes .
The head of the local prison administration Alexander Pleshkov told the Interfax news agency Thursday Khodorkovsky had been sent to a colony in the Krasnokamensk district of Chita province , close to the Chinese border .
Khodorkovsky was convicted on May 31 on charges of embezzlement , fraud and tax evasion relating to his business activities in the 1990s .
Supporters of Khodorkovsky say the state 's legal action against him and the Yukos oil firm was a Kremlin-driven reprisal for the tycoon 's forays into politics in opposition to President Vladimir Putin .
Russian officials deny this and say he is a common criminal .
A former Serb leader of the Yugoslav Army has surrendered to the U.N. war crimes tribunal in The Hague .
General Momcilo Perisic is the fourth high-ranking Serb suspect to turn himself in this year for alleged crimes during the 1990s Balkan wars .
The International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia made public Monday eight counts of crimes against humanity and five counts of war crimes against General Perisic for his role as Chief of the General Staff of the Yugoslav Army .
The tribunal states the charges cover his actions in Sarajevo , Zagreb and Srebrenica .
The former general said last week that appearing before the tribunal was the best way to defend his honor and the reputation of the army .
The UN Food and Agriculture Organization says migratory birds from Africa could help spread Avian Flu in the coming months .
At the bird flu conference in Beijing , FAO Deputy Director-General David Harcharik says Avian Flu could become “ entrenched ” in the Black Sea , the Caucasus and Near East regions through trade and travel .
But he says migratory birds coming from Africa in the spring could spread it further .
The FAO official says countries in Africa deserve special attention .
He says if bird flu were to become “ rooted in the African countryside , the consequences of a continent already devastated by hunger and poverty could be truly catastrophic . ”
Palestinian officials say Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas has undergone a heart procedure at a hospital in Jordan .
Officials said Wednesday Mr. Abbas would only remain briefly at the hospital .
Reports say the Palestinian leader underwent an angioplasty , or procedure aimed at opening clogged heart arteries to increase the blood flow to his heart .
He is expected to return to the Palestinian territories Thursday .
Mr. Abbas met last week at the White House with President Bush , who reaffirmed his support for the creation of a Palestinian state .
Mr. Bush also offered 50 million dollars for housing and construction in the Gaza Strip after Israel pulls out in August .
Pakistani officials say at least 90 people have been killed in the worst flooding in Pakistan 's northwest in almost 100 years .
Heavy monsoon rains continued to flood Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province Thursday , leaving towns in the Swat Valley badly affected .
Several thousand people have been displaced .
Aid workers say the heavy rains are impeding the ability to reach affected areas by helicopter .
Just across the border in Afghanistan , NATO says the Afghan National Army rescued more than 200 Afghan civilians stranded by flash floods in Nangarhar province .
Another 50 people have been killed in southern Pakistan since storms began earlier this month .
Rescue workers say more than 50,000 people have been impacted in the worst-hit areas of Baluchistan province .
Bad weather also was said to be a factor in the crash of a passenger plane Wednesday in the capital , Islamabad .
Iraqi officials say a car bomb explosion has killed at least 20 people in northern Baghdad .
The blast Thursday ripped through a crowd near a busy shopping area in the mainly Shi'ite neighborhood of Shaab .
Iraqi officials say at least four children and three women are among the dead .
At least 35 others were wounded .
On Wednesday , U.S. and Iraqi security officials said the number of insurgent attacks in Iraq has fallen to the lowest level in nearly six years .
Officials acknowledged that daily attacks continue in some areas , but military spokesman Major General David Perkins said the number of insurgent attacks has declined 90 percent since mid-2007 , when the unrest was at its height .
Iraqi police said a roadside bombing in the northern city of Mosul Wednesday killed three children on their way home from school .
The attack is believed to have targeted a nearby U.S. military patrol .
Uniformed gunmen have kidnapped the chief of Iraq 's Olympic Committee along with some 30 other sports officials and bodyguards .
Ahmed al-Hadjiya and the others were kidnapped Saturday afternoon from a conference center in Baghdad where they were holding a meeting .
Gunmen stormed the building , blindfolded and handcuffed the hostages , then drove them away in a convoy of vehicles .
The bodies of two bodyguards were found later dumped along a street .
The International Olympic Committee in Geneva condemned the kidnappings and called for the immediate release of the sports officials .
The kidnappings came after Iraq 's parliament voted to extend a state of emergency for 30 days in an effort to quell sectarian violence and insurgent attacks .
Elsewhere , fifteen people died in clashes and bombings , including two American soldiers .
Army officials in the Democratic Republic of Congo say several days of skirmishes with rebel militias have killed at least 23 fighters , mostly among the militias .
The fighting was in North Kivu province , near the DRC 's eastern border with Rwanda and Uganda .
Despite the presence of 17,000 U.N. peacekeeping soldiers , bands of foreign and domestic militia fighters still terrorize the country 's east .
The Rwandan Hutu militia , the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda or FLDR , has operated in eastern DRC since fleeing Rwanda in 1994 , when many of them took part in the slaughter of some 8,00,000 people .
The DRC is struggling to rebuild after a civil war from 1998 to 2002 , when approximately four million died , mostly from hunger and disease .
However , violence continues in the country 's east , despite a peace deal in 2003 .
U.S. Army dog handler Sergeant Michael Smith has admitted to using his canine to scare Iraqi detainees into soiling themselves , according to witness testimony Tuesday .
The 24-year-old Smith is charged with 13 counts of abuse during his time at Abu Ghraib prison , located just outside Baghdad .
If convicted on all counts , he faces 24.5 years in prison .
Witness John Ketzer also worked at Abu Ghraib , and says the two had a contest to see if they could force the prisoners to soil themselves .
Abu Ghraib came to the public 's attention after a 2004 investigation revealed numerous cases of prisoner abuse by American soldiers .
Graphic photographs showing military personnel in the act of abusing prisoners were widely circulated and led to the discharge of more than a dozen U.S. soldiers .
A North Korean official says the country has built nuclear weapons to cope with what it calls the " U.S. nuclear threat " and says the nation is prepared to counter any U.S. pre-emptive strike .
The state-run Korean Central News Service Tuesday quotes an unnamed North Korean Foreign Ministry spokesman as saying the United States should seek cooperation with North Korea rather than pressing it to abandon its nuclear program .
The spokesman made the comments in response to the U.S. National Security Strategy released last week , which says the United States will act pre-emptively to prevent hostile acts .
Six-nation talks over North Korea 's nuclear program have been stalled since November .
North Korea is demanding that U.S. economic sanctions against Pyongyang be lifted .
Washington has rejected the demand , saying the sanctions are not related to the talks .
The African Union says it is making a symbolic contribution of $ 1,00,000 to areas affected by the Asian tsunami .
In announcing the donation , the African Union expressed its solidarity with victims from southeast Asia to the Indian Ocean coast of Africa .
The chairman of the African Union Commission , Alpha Oumar Konare , also expressed his solidarity and sympathy to everyone affected by the disaster .
He commended efforts by nations that are working to alleviate suffering , and called on African Union member states to provide assistance .
The tsunami devastated coastal areas from Malaysia to East Africa .
At least 200 people died in the northern Somali fishing community of Halfun .
The ocean surge also took lives in Tanzania , the Seychelles , and Kenya .
Thirty-two Cuban migrants have landed on a small island in the Florida Keys .
Coast Guard spokeswoman Sandra Bartlett said Friday the migrants were found on an uninhabited strip of land .
She said the Coast Guard picked up the Cubans and handed them over to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection agency .
A border protection spokesman said Friday the 32 were in good health .
He said the migrants told him they left Cuba Monday and arrived on the island Thursday night .
Nearly 1,500 Cubans were caught trying to reach the United States last year .
Cubans who set foot on U.S. territory are usually allowed to stay , while those intercepted at sea generally are sent home .
Crude oil and gasoline prices eased Friday after Rita was downgraded to a category 4 Hurricane .
Prices also declined when the storm 's predicted path shifted slightly away from the center of the U.S. oil refining industry to a less populated part of the Gulf Coast .
But investors remain on watch because hurricanes are unpredictable , and the " weaker " storm is still just as strong as Hurricane Katrina , which devastated nearby New Orleans , killed more than 1,000 people , and damaged key parts of the U.S. energy industry .
In the wake of Hurricane Katrina , world oil prices and gasoline prices spiked to all-time highs .
Consumers and analysts say they are worried that serious damage from Hurricane Rita could drive prices to new record highs , damaging economic growth .
Three more concerts have been planned for the Live 8 charity event - in Japan , Canada and South Africa .
Rock star Bob Geldof , who is organizing the events , says the concerts in Tokyo and Toronto were arranged to put pressure on the Japanese and Canadian governments to increase aid to Africa .
He said now that Europe has agreed to double its aid to Africa , the Americans , Japanese and Canadians have a chance to do so as well .
For the concert in Johannesburg , Geldof said former president Nelson Mandela will open the event , as long as he is healthy enough .
Concerts also are planned in London , Paris , Rome , Berlin and Philadelphia - all on July 2 .
The goal is to persuade world leaders to increase assistance to Africa .
Iran has denied allegations by an exiled opposition group that said Tehran has a secret nuclear weapons facility .
A top Iranian diplomat for nuclear affairs told reporters Thursday the site in question has nothing to do with nuclear activities .
He said Iran has no undeclared nuclear facilities .
On Wednesday , the opposition National Council of Resistance of Iran alleged that Tehran has a secret uranium enrichment facility and has imported weapons-grade uranium and blueprints for a nuclear bomb .
But Tehran says its nuclear programs are strictly for electricity generation .
A recent International Atomic Energy Agency report said Iran has not diverted nuclear materials to a weapons program , although it did not rule out the possibility of secret atomic activities .
Ukrainian authorities say Saturday 's scheduled signing of a controversial natural gas deal with Russia has been postponed until Wednesday , to allow officials to complete work on documents .
Under the deal reached earlier this month after a three-day Russian suspension of deliveries , Ukraine agreed to buy gas from Russia at a rate of $ 95 per 1000 cubic meters , up from the previous rate of $ 50 .
But the agreement triggered a political crisis , and Ukraine 's parliament voted to dismiss the government of Prime Minister Yuriy Yekhanurov .
Lawmakers Thursday also endorsed the dismissal of Justice Minister Serhiy Holovaty and Fuel and Energy Minister Ivan Plachkov .
News reports from Kiev say Mr. Plachkov may travel to Moscow Sunday for talks on gas supplies .
Turkmen President Saparmurat Niyazov , whose country is also a leading supplier of natural gas to Ukraine , will also be in Moscow Sunday .
It is an anxious time for the families of several Western hostages being held in Iraq - they are awaiting news on the fate of their loved ones .
On Thursday , the Islamic Army in Iraq said it killed American security consultant Ronald Schulz .
The group promised to release photos of his murder , but there has been no evidence to corroborate its claim .
Meanwhile , the families of another American , a Briton and two Canadians continue to fear for their loved ones , as a Saturday deadline for their execution draws closer .
Their captors have threatened to kill them unless all Iraqi prisoners are freed .
Against this backdrop , Iraq is preparing for Thursday 's parliamentary election .
Voters will choose a new 275-member national assembly to sit for a four-year term .
New fighting in the Somali capital , Mogadishu , has killed at least 11 people .
In one incident , Islamist insurgents fired mortars at an African Union peacekeepers ' base Wednesday , prompting soldiers to respond .
Witnesses say at least seven civilians were killed and several others injured .
In another incident , a clash between police and government soldiers at the Mogadishu police academy killed at least four people , including three soldiers and one policeman .
Reports say the clash began when police tried to take a gun from a solider .
Mogadishu has endured years of violence since the fall of Somalia 's last stable government in 1991 .
Thousands of residents have fled the city this week , ahead of an expected new round of fighting between the transitional government and the insurgents .
The government has promised an offensive against the Islamists , who control large portions of the capital .
France has summoned the Israeli ambassador in Paris to demand an immediate end to the construction of Jewish settlements .
A French Foreign Ministry spokesman , Eric Chevallier , says the ministry 's political director met with Israeli Ambassador Daniel Shek on Thursday and called for a halt to settlement building , including in east Jerusalem .
Earlier this week , both the European Union and Russia called on Israel to halt plans to build some 20 new apartments in east Jerusalem 's Sheikh Jarrah neighborhood .
Israeli Deputy Foreign Minister Danny Ayalon said Tuesday that Israel has the right to build anywhere in Jerusalem .
The French Foreign Ministry on Thursday also urged Israel to reopen border crossings in the Gaza Strip , to allow reconstruction of the Palestinian territory following Israel 's offensive that ended in January .
French officials expressed concern about restrictions on the movements of French diplomats in the Palestinian territories due to Israeli security measures .
Leaders from the African Union are gathering in Sirte , Libya , for a two-day summit to focus on fighting poverty , disease and war on the continent .
The leaders are expected to use the summit , which opens Monday , to pressure rich countries for more engagement in Africa .
This includes calls for debt cancellation as well as increased funding for AU peacekeeping missions .
U.S. and European leaders say they hope the African summit will also include a strongly worded statement about Zimbabwe 's recent clampdown on shantytowns - a move that has left millions homeless .
On Saturday , AU foreign ministers proposed a reform plan that would give the continent two permanent seats on the United Nations Security Council , along with three non-permanent seats .
The 15-member Security Council now has five permanent members -- a status that includes veto power ( for the United States , Britain , France , Russia and China ) .
Two NATO soldiers have died in an explosion in southern Afghanistan .
NATO 's International Security Assistance Force released a statement Wednesday saying the soldiers were killed by an improvised explosive device .
Officials did not disclose the soldiers ' nationalities .
Separately , NATO says coalition forces captured a Taliban sub-commander late Tuesday while searching a compound in Nangarhar province , east of Kabul .
An ISAF statement says the unidentified sub-commander was involved in kidnappings , weapons purchases and spying on coalition forces .
ISAF also says allied forces captured several other suspected militants in Helmand province late Tuesday .
Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas says he might resign if extremists block his program of peace negotiations with Israel after next week 's Palestinian parliamentary elections .
Speaking to reporters in the West Bank town of Ramallah Wednesday , Mr. Abbas also defended the inclusion in the election of the militant faction Hamas , which refuses to disarm and opposes peace talks with Israel .
He expressed hope Hamas would moderate its views .
Mr. Abbas said he remains committed to peace talks , which he described as a " political program , " and that he would step down if unable to carry out the program .
Hamas is expected to do well in the election .
Israel says Palestinian gunmen must be disarmed before resumption of peace talks .
Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva and his Venezuelan counterpart , Hugo Chavez , have signed a series of agreements in what they called a strategic alliance .
The two presidents met Monday in Caracas .
They signed accords on cooperation in the areas of oil , construction , science and the military .
The Associated Press quotes President Chavez as saying the meeting was a critical development for the countries ' integration .
During their meeting , the leaders were also to discuss the selling of Brazilian aircraft to Venezuela 's military .
Is the leader of Coldplay icy to the press ? A Brazilian journalist claims Chris Martin is so rude that he feels sorry for his wife , actress Gwyneth Paltrow .
A writer from Folha de Sao Paolo opined " Gwyneth Paltrow must suffer .
Chris Martin , her husband , is n't one of the nicest persons on earth .
At least that 's what it seemed on the 20-minute press conference . "
While in Brazil , Chris Martin became testy when a reporter asked him if he were planning a duet with Gwyneth .
He also complained that all that matters in today 's pop market is that one 's song becomes a ringtone .
Sweden 's Anja Paerson has won her second career World Cup downhill ski race by edging home favorite Michaela Dorfmeister by 0.04 seconds in Bad Kleinkirchheim , Austria ( 0.068171296 to 0.068217593 ) .
Fraenzi Aufdenblatten of Sweden was a close third , only 0.08 seconds off the pace ( 0.068263889 ) .
Croatian Janica Kostelic , the World Cup overall leader , missed the podium by a mere 0.01 seconds ( 0.068275463 ) .
She finished less than 0.1 seconds behind Paerson , her main rival for the World Cup overall title .
Last season , Kostelic was second to Paerson overall by just three points .
So far this season the Croatian skier has 782 points to the Swede 's 685 .
Another women 's downhill will be held Saturday at the same site , followed by a Super G on Sunday at the redesigned Franz Klammer slope , where the first World Cup is being staged since 1997 .
Thousands of fans waiting in line to enter a concert in South Korea have caused a stampede that killed 11 people and injured at least 60 .
The victims were trampled Monday when a near-capacity crowd surged toward a gate at a stadium in the city of Sangju , 270 kilometers south of Seoul .
Among the dead were several young boys and elderly women .
Officials later canceled the concert of South Korean singers popular with older audiences .
It was part of festivities for Korea 's National Founding Day , marking the legendary date of the country 's founding some 4000 years ago .
Leftist former Mexico City Mayor Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador has kicked off his campaign for next year 's presidential election .
Mr. Lopez Obrador opened his campaign Thursday in the northern Baja , California city of La Paz .
He pledged to spur the economy and fight poverty by closing the gap between the rich and poor .
The candidate also planned campaign stop in the northern border cities of Tijuana and Mexicali .
The popular 51-year-old leads public opinion polls ahead of the July , 2006 presidential race .
Much of his popularity is in the capital , where he resigned as mayor two weeks ago to pursue the presidency .
President Vicente Fox is prevented from running for office again by Mexico 's constitution , which limits the presidency to a single six-year term .
An outbreak of the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu has killed at least four peacocks and one goose in the Pakistani capital , Islamabad .
A livestock official from the ministry of Food and Agriculture said test results confirmed the presence of H5N1 and that affected birds are being destroyed .
Officials have closed Islamabad 's Marghzar zoo where the outbreak occurred .
This is the fourth case of deadly bird flu detected in Pakistan .
No human cases have been recorded .
The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization ( FAO ) is warning the global fight against bird flu remains underfunded .
FAO officials say some nations have made essential contributions , but tens of millions of dollars more than the nearly $ 20 million already given is urgently needed to prevent the spread of the virus .
Australia Monday says it will donate an additional 40,000 courses of the anti-viral medication Tamiflu to Indonesia .
Australia 's foreign minister Alexander Downer said Indonesian authorities had been somewhat unprepared for the spread of bird flu , but they are getting better organized .
Meanwhile , doctors in Jakarta today said initial tests suggest a 27-year-old Indonesian woman has died of bird flu .
Bird flu has killed more than 60 people in Southeast Asia since 2003 .
Security officials in Iraq say at least three Iraqi policemen have been killed and seven others wounded in a roadside bomb attack in the northern city of Kirkuk .
Authorities say the attack occurred Saturday as police took part in a funeral procession for a comrade killed by insurgents on Friday .
Insurgents have killed hundreds of policemen in a bloody campaign to topple Iraq 's U.S.-backed government .
Saturday 's attack came on the second anniversary of the beginning of the war in Iraq .
U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld told Pentagon workers Friday that Iraq has made remarkable changes since U.S.-led forces invaded the country to topple Saddam Hussein .
Some infromation for this report provided by AP , AFP and Reuters .
At least 16 people were killed and an unknown number are still trapped in a residential building that collapsed in Lagos , Nigerla late Tuesday .
The four-story apartment building collapsed in the evening after many occupants had returned home from work .
Rescuers saved at least 36 people from the rubble , many of them injured .
The Associated Press says authorities are blaming poor construction as the likely cause of the collapse .
Poor construction has been blamed for previous collapses in Lagos , including the fall of an 18-story building in March that killed two people and injured 24 .
Initial sales reports from U.S. retailers have been mixed at the beginning of the important Christmas holiday shopping season .
A national shopping research group , ShopperTrak RCT corp. , reported Friday 's total sales at $ 8 billion , down about 0.9 percent from last year .
Sales had been projected to rise by about four percent .
Retailers rely on the first few days after the Thanksgiving holiday as a key time to boost overall sales for the year .
They offer deep discounts and special deals to draw consumers shopping for presents for the annual gift-giving season .
Sales figures were not down for all U.S. retailers .
Discount store chain Wal-Mart reported sales for the month of November were up 4.3 percent from last year .
Analysts examine store receipts at this time of year for clues about the overall strength of the US economy .
Police in Istanbul , Turkey have arrested four men suspected of having links to al-Qaida .
Police say they made the arrests in a low income area of the city and found small arms and documents on bomb-making in the men 's homes .
Police say the men may have been planning bomb attacks .
Security sources say the men were first spotted chanting slogans and hanging banners in support of al-Qaida in Iraq chief Abu Musab al-Zarqawi , shortly after U.S. forces killed him in June .
The International Atomic Energy Agency says Iran has failed to meet a United Nations Security Council deadline for suspending uranium enrichment .
That assessment came in an IAEA report delivered to the U.N. Security Council Friday .
On Thursday , U.S. Ambassador John Bolton said the United States is seeking a legally binding U.N. resolution to demand that Iran halt the enrichment .
The so-called Chapter Seven resolution would clear the way for possible penalties against Iran , and would leave the door open to possible future military action .
But China and Russia , who also are veto-wielding members of the Security Council , oppose sanctions against Iran .
Despite the international pressure , Iran remains defiant about its nuclear program , which it says is for peaceful purposes .
The United States accuses Tehran of seeking nuclear weapons .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was quoted as saying Iran does not " give a damn " about Security Council resolutions .
The United Nations children 's fund , UNICEF , has appealed for an initial $ 20 million to provide emergency relief to children and families affected by the Pakistan earthquake .
The agency says that almost one in every five people in the affected area is a child under the age five , and nearly half are younger than 18 .
Many of the victims were schoolchildren just starting the day 's lessons when the quake struck .
UNICEF 's Executive Director Ann M. Veneman says the appeal means immediate action to save children 's lives .
She said needed assistance includes medical care , clean water , nutritional food for infants , clothing and shelter .
UNICEF says it has begun moving additional staff and supplies into Pakistan from its regional offices .
It says that , in addition , it is providing logistics and supplies for the frontline Pakistani surgical teams being dropped by helicopters into the most remote areas .
Turkish police say one person was killed in a marketplace blast Saturday in the western port city of Izmir .
Officials say 14 others were wounded in the early morning blast .
Authorities say the homemade bomb was in a bag on a bicycle , and exploded as vendors were preparing their stalls for the day .
The blast comes one day before a planned massive demonstration in Izmir to support Turkey 's secular system .
Secularists say the government wants to undermine the country 's strict separation of state and religion .
It is not clear who was responsible for the blast , which shattered windows in homes and cars .
Kurdish militants , leftists and radical Islamic groups have carried out bombings in Turkey in the past .
Somali gunmen who hijacked a ship carrying food aid for tsunami victims have let it dock near the capital , Mogadishu , two months after the vessel 's capture .
A U.N. World Food Program spokeswoman confirmed Monday that the U.N.-chartered ship had arrived at El-Maan .
The WFP had negotiated with El-Maan port authorities to ensure a free passage of the food aid to Somalia 's transitional government for distribution .
However some reports cast doubt over whether the gunmen , who are still aboard the ship , will allow the cargo to be handed over to Somali officials .
The ship and its 10-member crew were hijacked as it sailed from Kenya to Somalia in June .
The WFP had hired the Kenyan vessel to carry 850 metric tons of rice donated by Japan and Germany .
A private Afghan television station has aired a video of an Italian aid worker kidnapped two weeks ago in Kabul .
The video footage , first aired by Tolo TV station Sunday , shows Clementina Cantoni wrapped in a blanket , sitting between two men pointing assault rifles at her head .
Ms. Cantoni , who works for CARE International , spoke quietly on the recording and looked nervous .
The TV station did not say how it had obtained the tape .
The Italian government called the video reassuring because it shows that Ms. Cantoni is in good health .
Without elaborating , a spokesman said " contacts are continuing . "
On Friday , Afghan religious leaders issued a fatwa , or religious decree , pledging death to anyone killing a foreigner who is in the country legally .
Afghan officials say a clash between security forces and suspected Taleban militants in eastern Nangarhar province bordering Pakistan has left two militants and one woman dead .
The officials say heavy fighting between the troops and the insurgents hiding in a building in the province 's Chaparhar district began late Wednesday and lasted for hours .
Several suspected Taleban appeared to have fled .
Authorities say U.S. troops supported local forces .
But U.S. military officials could not confirm the incident .
The clash is the latest rebel violence to hit southern and eastern provinces .
U.S.-led forces ousted the Taleban from power in late 2001 , after they refused to hand over al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden following the September 11 attacks on the United States .
Iran says it has allowed U.N. nuclear inspectors to visit a high-security military site to counter U.S. accusations it is secretly developing nuclear weapons .
Foreign Ministry spokesman Hamid Reza Asefi told reporters Sunday that International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) inspectors were recently given access to the Parchin military complex , 30 kilometers southeast of Tehran .
The inspectors arrived in Iran on October 28 for a weeklong visit .
The inspection followed repeated IAEA efforts to return to Parchin to again check for radioactivity in buildings and other areas within the sprawling military complex .
A previous inspection was conducted last January .
Meanwhile , Iranian officials said Tehran was in talks with Russia about joint production of nuclear fuel in Iran .
The officials said allowing foreign partners would help assure the international community of the peaceful nature of Iran 's nuclear program .
Three U.S. companies are being sued for selling material to the former Iraqi government of Saddam Hussein used in his chemical weapon attacks against Iraqi Kurds .
Five Iraqi expatriates filed a class action lawsuit this week in the U.S. state of Maryland , accusing the companies of violating the Geneva Conventions in connection with the attacks .
The Republic of Iraq is also named in the suit .
Saddam 's government used various chemical weapons in the anti-Kurd Anfal campaign in the late 1980s .
At a ceremony last month honoring victims in Halabja , one of the most infamous attacks , Iraq 's environment minister Narim Osman told VOA Kurdish Service foreign companies should be put on trial for their role in the killings .
The companies being sued are Alcolac , VWR International , and Thermo Fisher Scientific .
China 's official news agency reports that rescuers in the southeast of the country have recovered 50 bodies from a police academy hit by a typhoon-triggered landslide .
Xinhua says some 7,000 soldiers are still searching for 36 people who remain missing .
Officials said heavy rains from Typhoon Longwang on Sunday caused flooding and landslides in the Fujian province capital city , washing away two training school barracks that housed police recruits .
In a separate development , Xinhua says authorities have evacuated about 13,000 people from their homes in central China along a tributary of the Yangtze River .
It says heavy rains in Hubei province have cut off several roads , and more rain is expected in the next two days .
Crude oil prices surged above $ 50 a barrel in New York on Tuesday , amid cold weather , a falling dollar , and uncertainty about oil supplies .
The Bloomberg financial news service says crude oil for March delivery rose nearly $ 2 to hit $ 50.05 a barrel in late morning trading .
Analysts said colder-than-normal weather in key heating oil markets in Europe and the United States was one factor in boosting both demand and prices .
They also said traders are concerned that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries might cut production quotas further at a meeting next month .
The declining value of the U.S. dollar also played a role in boosting prices because international oil transactions are generally priced in dollars .
Jordan 's national security advisor and 10 other top officials have resigned , following last week 's suicide bombings at three hotels in Amman .
State media reported Tuesday that Jordan 's ambassador to Israel , Maruf Bakhit , would replace Saad Kheir as the security chief .
Royal Court chief Faisal Fayez also stepped down , and officials said Salim al-Turk would replace him .
No reasons were given for the resignations .
Also Tuesday , officials reported that a fourth American died from injuries suffered in the attacks , raising the death toll to 58 people .
Jordan 's Interior Ministry says it is pressing for quick approval of tougher anti-terrorism laws to prevent future attacks .
Al-Qaida in Iraq has claimed responsibility for the blasts carried out by three bombers .
Officials have arrested an Iraqi woman whose suicide vest failed to detonate in the attacks .
The European Union Naval Force says Somali pirates have hijacked a Panamanian-flagged cargo ship in the Gulf of Aden .
The European Union 's anti-piracy force said the MV Suez vessel was captured early Monday .
The ship has a 23-member crew from Egypt , Pakistan , Sri Lanka and India .
The EU force said the ship 's crew called for help when the vessel came under attack by gunfire , but by the time a naval helicopter arrived , the pirates had seized control .
Pirates have hijacked dozens of ships over the last few years , taking in tens of millions of dollars in ransom payments from ship owners .
Hijackings have continued this year despite patrols off Somalia 's coast by warships from the United States , European Union , NATO and China .
Somalia 's central government , fighting an Islamist insurgency , lacks the power and resources to combat piracy .
Pakistani officials say a bomb explosion ripped through a mosque in northwest Pakistan killing 11 people as they gathered for Friday prayers .
The blast targeted a mosque located next to local police headquarters in the Lower Dir region .
Hospital officials say at least 28 people were wounded in the bombing , including several children .
Lower Dir lies next to Swat Valley , the site of a fierce military offensive earlier this year to the oust the Taliban .
Militants have since retaliated with a series of attacks targeting security forces in the area .
In other violence , Pakistani intelligence officials say a suspected U.S. drone attack has killed three militants in the country 's northwest .
Officials say the drone fired missiles at a house in North Waziristan Friday , killing three militants and wounding two others .
The attack , was the third by a suspected U.S. drone since Thursday .
An Iranian exile group says Iran has built an extensive underground tunnel network to hide a secret nuclear weapons program .
The National Council of Resistance of Iran ( NCRI ) says 14 tunnels house nuclear equipment , research workshops , and command centers across Iran .
The group , which the United States has designated a terrorist organization , urged the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) to take action .
NCRI officials spoke to reporters in London about the tunnels Tuesday , one day before Britain , France and Germany hold new talks with Iran on its nuclear program .
European officials say the talks in Vienna will be " talks about the talks . "
European nations have been pressing Iran to abandon its nuclear-fuel program .
The United States accuses Iran of secretly trying to develop a nuclear bomb , charges Tehran denies .
Egypt 's Health Ministry says an 18-month-old boy has contracted the bird flu virus - the 55th such case since the first outbreak of the disease in the country in 2006 .
Egyptian media say the boy , from the central province of Minia , first showed symptoms on Friday after coming into contact with dead birds .
He was taken to a hospital on Saturday and is in stable condition .
The avian virus normally passes from bird to bird and occasionally to humans .
But experts fear a mutation of the virus could begin spreading from one human to another and start a pandemic that could kill millions .
The World Health Organization says the H5N1 strain of the virus has killed 248 people since it resurfaced in Asia in 2003 .
A group of about 150 South Koreans has arrived in the North Korean capital of Pyongyang to take part in a half marathon race aimed at promoting reconciliation between the two Koreas .
The South Korean runners arrived Wednesday and will join North Korean runners for Thursday 's 22-kilometer race through Pyongyang .
This first-ever jointly organized half marathon is being held to commemorate the 60th anniversary of Korea 's liberation from Japan .
After the race , the South Korean runners will take a two-day tour of historical sights and other attractions in Pyongyang .
They will return home on Saturday .
The event is the latest in a series of social , sports and cultural exchanges between the two Koreas since 2000 .
Members of the U.S. Congress have questioned top oil company executives about record-high oil and gasoline prices , record-high profits , and billions of dollars in tax breaks that help the companies .
The hearing before the House Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming convened Tuesday as gasoline prices hit an average price of 86 cents a liter ( $ 3.29 a gallon ) across the United States .
The top companies together cleared $ 123 billion in profits last year , with Exxon reaping about one-third of that .
Majority Democrats asked why such profitable companies need $ 18 billion in tax breaks , and why they do not invest more money in renewable energy sources , such as wind or solar .
The executives say their profits are reasonable considering the huge size of their companies .
They also argue that ending tax breaks will just make soaring oil costs hit consumers even harder .
A group of American civil rights lawyers and four Iraqi citizens have filed a criminal complaint in Germany calling for an investigation into top U.S. officials over the Iraqi prisoner abuse scandal .
The Center for Constitutional Rights filed the complaint Tuesday with the German Federal Prosecutor 's office , under the doctrine of " universal jurisdiction " of alleged war criminals .
A statement from the group asks the German prosecutor to meet " obligations " under law to investigate allegations of torture and war crimes .
The statement alleges the four Iraqis were subject to beatings and sexual abuse while in U.S. detention at Baghdad 's Abu Ghraib prison .
The complaint calls for an investigation into top U.S. officials , including Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld , former CIA Director George Tenet and the former commander of U.S. forces in Iraq , Lieutenant General Ricardo Sanchez .
The attorneys say U.S. investigations into the abuse have not gone far enough .
The U.S. Secret Service has begun protecting Democratic Senator and presidential candidate Barack Obama - a full 18 months before the country 's next presidential election .
The Department of Homeland Security says Obama requested the protection .
His fellow senator from Illinois , Richard Durban , tells reporters he got information that made him concerned for Obama 's safety , including some racist remarks on the Internet .
Obama is seeking to become the first African-American U.S. president .
Normally , protection for U.S. presidential candidates is not provided until the election year .
Senator Durbin says he also was concerned about the large crowds that Obama draws at campaign events .
New York Senator and presidential candidate Hillary Clinton has Secret Service protection , but hers is linked to her status as a former first lady .
Two roadside bombings in the Iraqi capital Tuesday killed four people and wounded at least 15 others .
Iraqi officials say the attacks were aimed at police patrols in Baghdad .
Authorities say in one case , a roadside bomb exploded near a hospital in central Baghdad , killing a police officer and a civilian .
The second roadside attack happened in western Baghdad , killing two people .
The music of jazz musician Miles Davis remains popular more than 16 years after his death .
His music is being sampled by hip-hop artists , actor Don Cheadle is set to portray him in a movie and a new CD has been released with remixed and updated versions of his music .
VOA Persian Service 's Benham Natagehi sat down with Davis ' son Erin to discuss his father 's music .
Ruth Reader narrates .
The International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan says its paratroopers and Afghan National Army soldiers have advanced deep into the Taliban 's heartland in Helmand province .
A NATO statement Monday says the excursion marks the first time Afghan and ISAF forces " have driven this deep " into the area .
NATO said as the Afghan Army arrived in large numbers , the insurgents were not able to sustain the fight and retreated .
Also , several suspects have been arrested after a suicide attack killed six American troops when an explosives-packed minibus blew up at the entrance of a joint NATO-Afghan base in southern Afghanistan , officials said Monday .
The assault came days ahead of a major White House review of its Afghan strategy following President Barack Obama 's decision last year to send 30,000 American reinforcements in a bid to reverse gains by the Taliban since they were ousted from power in the 2001 U.S.-led invasion .
The United Nations War Crimes Tribunal in The Hague will hold the first of a series of hearings Thursday on whether to transfer cases against 18 suspects to national courts in the Balkans .
Court spokesman Jim Landale told VOA the tribunal will consider a prosecution motion to transfer the cases against war crimes suspects Mirko Norac and Rahim Ademi to courts in Croatia .
The two , both Croatian army officers , are accused of killing Serb civilians in Croatia 's Medak pocket in 1993 .
He said the court will hold several more hearings against other suspects in coming months .
The Hague court is scheduled to complete all its activities by 2010 .
The prosecution calls the nine cases a " first batch " and says other cases may be moved to the Balkans later to allow The Hague tribunal to deal with more important trials .
French Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin has successfully undergone gall bladder surgery .
Defense ministry officials say the surgery Saturday went well and they indicate that Mr. Raffarin will remain in the hospital for several days .
Earlier Saturday , Mr. Raffarin abruptly canceled plans to travel to World War II anniversary ceremonies in the city of Reims .
Instead , he entered the Paris Val De Grace military hospital .
The 56-year-old Mr. Raffarin assumed the post of prime minister three years ago .
Iraqi security forces say a car bomb exploded at a market in northern Diyala province Friday , killing at least 23 people .
Officials say the blast occurred in the town of Khalis and injured more than 50 people .
In late March , at least 42 people were killed in twin bombings near a restaurant in Khalis .
The explosions occurred shortly before Iraqi officials announced full preliminary results from the March 7 parliamentary election .
Election officials say former Prime Minister Ayad Allawi 's bloc won 91 seats , the most of any political group .
Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki 's coalition won 89 .
Neither party had the majority needed to form a government .
Residents of a Kurdish area in northeastern Iraq are alleging that Iran has fired artillery shells across the border into two villages in Iraq .
Residents say farmland was damaged in the alleged shelling in Penjwin , which is east of Sulaimaniya .
No injuries were reported .
Earlier this week , Kurdish leaders said two other villages in northeastern Iraq had been the target of Iranian shelling , prompting frightened residents to flee their homes .
In recent months , Iranian forces have clashed with Kurdish rebels in northwestern Iran .
The insurgents are believed to be linked to Turkey 's separatist Kurdistan Workers Party , or PKK .
Opponents of Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez marched through the streets of Caracas Saturday to demand a fair and legitimate vote during next Sunday 's local elections .
The protesters say they are concerned the August 7 vote will be plagued by irregularities favoring Mr. Chavez 's ruling party .
The protesters are demanding anti-fraud measures be put in place , including an independent audit of the vote .
Some supporters of the president threw rocks and bottles at the marchers .
Police blocked the crowd of at least 1,000 protesters from reaching the electoral council 's office where they had planned to hand over a list of demands .
Mr. Chavez 's opponents say he is ruling Venezuela like a dictator , and have accused him of rigging last year 's referendum of his rule , although international observers endorsed results of the vote .
President Bush says he supports a criminal investigation into the destruction of CIA videotapes showing interrogations of terror suspects .
Mr. Bush made the comment Thursday in an interview with Reuters new agency .
Earlier today , White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said Mr. Bush will cooperate with U.S. Attorney General Michael Mukasey in the investigation .
She said Mr. Bush has full confidence in both Mukasey and the head of the Central Intelligence Agency , Michael Hayden .
Mukasey announced the Justice Department investigation Wednesday , appointing federal prosecutor John Durham to lead the inquiry .
The CIA said last month that some videotapes of al-Qaida suspect interrogations , made in 2002 , had been destroyed in 2005 to protect the identities of the interrogators .
Critics of the move accuse the CIA of destroying evidence of torture .
President Bush has said the United States does not use torture as a method of interrogation .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says it is spending $ 83 million to upgrade its two main air bases at Bagram and Kandahar .
The commander of U.S. air forces in the war-torn country , Brigadier General James Hunt , told a news conference in Kabul Monday the money will be spent to improve vital facilities at the two bases .
He said the military has been continuously improving runways , taxiways , navigation aids , airfield lighting , and other facilities .
The U.S.-led coalition has more than 17,000 troops in Afghanistan , mostly in the south and southeast , where the remnants of the ousted Taleban regime are most active .
Afghan leaders say they want a long-term strategic partnership with the United States , and Washington has expressed interest in having permanent bases in Afghanistan .
Somalia 's transitional government has ordered the closure of four major news outlets in the capital , Mogadishu .
Officials issued a letter Monday ordering the al-Jazeera network and three local private radio stations - Shabelle , Holy Koran , and HornAfrik - to shut down their operations immediately .
A government spokesman , Abdirahman Dinari , said that now there is a government in place , the media outlets need to get a license , and , in his words , " avoid causing unrest by airing unconfirmed reports . "
The U.N.-backed Somali interim government declared three months of martial law on Saturday .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan has asked the Security Council to move faster to help end violence in Sudan 's western Darfur region .
Mr. Annan met with council members Monday after new reports that people are being killed and raped , and villages continue to be burned in Darfur .
He says council members promised to introduce a new resolution on Darfur this week , which will include measures for holding accountable those accused of crimes .
Security Council members are also considering sending peacekeepers or imposing sanctions on Sudan 's government .
Mr. Annan says U.N. members should back an African Union team monitoring a cease-fire between pro-government forces and Darfur rebels .
Meantime , the top U.N. humanitarian official , Jan Egeland , says humanitarian conditions have improved in Darfur , despite continued fighting .
The United Nations tribunal in The Hague has given Serbian General Sreten Lukic 30 days to enter a plea to charges of war crimes in Kosovo .
General Lukic , who arrived in The Hague Monday , sought the extra time to permit a medical examination following vascular surgery last week .
The tribunal has indicted General Lukic and three other Serbian generals on charges of war crimes and crimes against humanity against Kosovo Albanians in 1999 .
One of the three has surrendered voluntarily , the two others are in hiding .
Meanwhile , in Belgrade , Serbia 's extreme nationalist Radical Party has filed a motion of no-confidence in the government of Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica to protest the extradition of 11 suspects to the court since October .
The Serbian government says it has encouraged war crimes suspects to surrender to the tribunal .
Montevideo , founded by the Spanish in 1726 as a military stronghold , soon took advantage of its natural harbor to become an important commercial center .
Claimed by Argentina but annexed by Brazil in 1821 , Uruguay declared its independence four years later and secured its freedom in 1828 after a three-year struggle .
The administrations of President Jose BATLLE in the early 20th century established widespread political , social , and economic reforms that established a statist tradition .
A violent Marxist urban guerrilla movement named the Tupamaros , launched in the late 1960s , led Uruguay 's president to cede control of the government to the military in 1973 .
By yearend , the rebels had been crushed , but the military continued to expand its hold over the government .
Civilian rule was not restored until 1985 .
In 2004 , the left-of-center Frente Amplio Coalition won national elections that effectively ended 170 years of political control previously held by the Colorado and Blanco parties .
Uruguay 's political and labor conditions are among the freest on the continent .
The Cayman Islands were colonized from Jamaica by the British during the 18th and 19th centuries and were administered by Jamaica after 1863 .
In 1959 , the islands became a territory within the Federation of the West Indies .
When the Federation dissolved in 1962 , the Cayman Islands chose to remain a British dependency .
The West Bank - the larger of the two areas comprising the Palestinian territories - experienced a high single-digit economic growth rate in 2010 as a result of inflows of donor aid , the Palestinian Authority 's ( PA ) implementation of economic and security reforms , and the easing of some movement and access restrictions by the Israeli Government .
Nevertheless , overall standard-of-living measures remain near levels seen prior to the start of the second intifada in 2000 .
The almost decade-long downturn largely has been a result of Israeli closure policies - a steady increase in movement and access restrictions across the West Bank in response to Israeli security concerns which have disrupted labor and trade flows , industrial capacity , and basic commerce , both external and internal .
Since 2008 , the PA under President Mahmoud ABBAS and Prime Minister Salam FAYYAD has implemented a largely successful campaign of institutional reforms that has contributed to increased security and economic performance , supported by more than $ 3 billion in direct foreign donor assistance to the PA 's budget since 2007 .
An easing of some Israeli restrictions on West Bank movement and access since 2008 also has contributed to an uptick in retail activity in larger cities .
The biggest impediments to economic improvements in the West Bank remain Palestinians ' lack of access to land and resources in Israeli-controlled areas , import and export restrictions , and a high-cost capital structure .
Absent robust private sector growth , the PA will continue to rely heavily on donor aid for its budgetary needs .
The Indian Ocean is the third largest of the world 's five oceans ( after the Pacific Ocean and Atlantic Ocean , but larger than the Southern Ocean and Arctic Ocean ) .
Four critically important access waterways are the Suez Canal ( Egypt ) , Bab el Mandeb ( Djibouti-Yemen ) , Strait of Hormuz ( Iran-Oman ) , and Strait of Malacca ( Indonesia-Malaysia ) .
The decision by the International Hydrographic Organization in the spring of 2000 to delimit a fifth ocean , the Southern Ocean , removed the portion of the Indian Ocean south of 60 degrees south latitude .
SOME CRANES made their feeding grounds on some plowlands newly sown with wheat .
For a long time the Farmer , brandishing an empty sling , chased them away by the terror he inspired ; but when the birds found that the sling was only swung in the air , they ceased to take any notice of it and would not move .
The Farmer , on seeing this , charged his sling with stones , and killed a great number .
The remaining birds at once forsook his fields , crying to each other , " It is time for us to be off to Liliput : for this man is no longer content to scare us , but begins to show us in earnest what he can do . "
If words suffice not , blows must follow .
A VERY HUNGRY FOX , seeing some bread and meat left by shepherds in the hollow of an oak , crept into the hole and made a hearty meal .
When he finished , he was so full that he was not able to get out , and began to groan and lament his fate .
Another Fox passing by heard his cries , and coming up , inquired the cause of his complaining .
On learning what had happened , he said to him , " Ah , you will have to remain there , my friend , until you become such as you were when you crept in , and then you will easily get out . "
AN Orator afflicted with atrophy of the organ of common-sense rose in his place in the halls of legislation and pointed with pride to his Unblotted Escutcheon .
Seeing what it supposed to be the finger of scorn pointed at it , the Unblotted Escutcheon turned black with rage .
Seeing the Unblotted Escutcheon turning black with what he supposed to be the record of his own misdeeds showing through the whitewash , the Orator fell dead of mortification .
Seeing the Orator fall dead of what they supposed to be atrophy of the organ of common-sense , his colleagues resolved that whenever they should adjourn because they were tired , it should be out of respect to the memory of him who had so frequently made them so .
U.S. President George Bush has commented on his meeting this week with Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki , saying Mr. Maliki made it clear that the Iraqi people do not want the country partitioned .
Mr. Bush said in his Saturday radio address Saturday that Mr. Maliki told him partitioning the country would lead to more sectarian violence .
Mr. Bush said the success of the Iraqi government depends on the success of Iraqi security forces .
He added that he and Mr. Maliki agree that training of Iraqi security forces needs to be done faster and on a broader scale .
President Bush said he recognizes that recent violence in Iraq has been unsettling .
And he pledged to work with U.S. leaders in both political parties to find consensus on the best path forward .
Louisiana 's governor has announced a long-awaited rebuilding proposal , almost six months after Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita ravaged the U.S. state .
Governor Kathleen Blanco Monday said the state 's $ 7.5 billion plan offers up to $ 1,50,000 to homeowners to repair , rebuild or relocate to a designated area .
Homeowners could also accept a buyout of 60 percent of the pre-storm value of their houses , not to exceed $ 1,50,000 .
Officials say some 3,30,000 homes suffered damage , including more than 1,00,000 that were significantly damaged or destroyed .
Uninsured homeowners would also be covered under the plan , but would be subject to a 30 percent penalty .
Registration for the program would begin in March , but the proposal is dependent upon congressional approval of the funds .
Last week , the White House requested $ 4.2 billion in funding for Louisiana .
At least 18 people have been slain in attacks central Nigeria , in the latest breakout of inter-religious violence that has killed thousands over the past decade .
Authorities in Plateau State said people with machetes on Tuesday killed 13 people , including women and children .
The attack took place before dawn in the majority Christian village of Kuru Wareng .
Five other people were killed in a separate attack Tuesday in the nearby area of Barakin Ladi .
The two sites are located in Nigeria 's volatile Middle Belt , where the mostly Muslim north meets the mainly Christian south .
Nearby is the city of Jos , where at least 80 people died in a wave of Christmas Eve bombings claimed by the radical Islamist group Boko Haram .
Nigerian authorities say the attacks were intended to inflame tensions between Muslims and Christians before April 's scheduled presidential election .
The Arab television station al-Jazeera has aired a new videotape in which the deputy leader of the al-Qaida 's terror network denounces U.S. calls for reform in the Middle East and rejects the possibility of peaceful change .
The tape , broadcast Friday , carries a message from Ayman al-Zawahiri in which he says expelling the " invading Crusaders and Jewish " forces from the Middle East will not be accomplished through demonstrations .
He said reform is possible only through fighting for the sake of God .
Ayman al-Zawahiri , speaking with a rifle beside him , also criticized the Pakistani , Saudi and Egyptian governments .
U.S. officials say they believe Osama bin Laden and his former deputy may be hiding in the rugged mountains along the Pakistan-Afghanistan border .
A Pakistani court has sentenced an al-Qaida-linked militant to death for plotting a suicide attack that killed a U.S. diplomat in Karachi two years ago .
The anti-terrorism court in Karachi convicted Anwarul Haq Wednesday of murder and terrorism in connection with the bombing .
In the March 2006 attack , a suicide bomber rammed his car into a vehicle carrying U.S. diplomat David Foy near the American consulate in Karachi .
The explosion killed Foy and three Pakistanis , one day before President Bush began an official visit to Pakistan .
Pakistani authorities arrested Haq and another suspect , Usman Ghani , several months later and accused both of links to al-Qaida .
The Karachi court acquitted Ghani for lack of evidence .
The Associated Press quotes a defense lawyer Mohammed Farooq as saying Haq will appeal his conviction .
The lawyer also accused police of producing " fake " witnesses against his client .
The ruling party of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak looks set to retain its two-thirds majority in the 454-seat parliament , following Thursday 's final round of legislative voting .
Preliminary results Friday indicate the National Democratic Party won at least 120 seats in the first two rounds and at least four seats Thursday .
It will have about 125 candidates competing in next week 's run-off .
That run-off will be held in districts where no candidate won more than 50 percent of the vote .
Egypt 's main opposition group , the Muslim Brotherhood , won 76 seats in the first two phases , but none on Thursday .
However , 35 of the candidates it endorsed qualified to compete in the run-off .
Brotherhood officials accuse authorities of manipulating the vote .
They point to widespread reports of police interference at polling centers in opposition strongholds , and to the arrest of hundreds of Brotherhood supporters .
An opposition leader in Belarus has been released after being detained trying to enter a political convention in Minsk .
Police officials say presidential hopeful Alexander Kozulin was detained while trying to register to attend a political gathering .
Witnesses say Mr. Kozulin was beaten and driven to a police station where he was detained .
He was later released , but prosecutors say he may face charges of hooliganism for allegedly shoving a police officer and damaging a picture of President Alexander Lukashenko .
Mr. Kozulin is one of three people challenging Mr. Lukashenko in elections scheduled for March 19 .
The United States has criticized Mr. Lukashenko , calling him Europe 's last dictator .
The Belarusian leader has , in turn , railed against what he called Western attempts to destabilize his administration .
The United States and Russia say they hope to sign a formal agreement next week that paves the way for Russia to join the World Trade Organization .
The two sides announced an agreement in principle Friday that covers tariffs on agricultural and industrial goods , access to Russian financial markets , and Moscow 's protection of intellectual property rights .
Terms of the agreement were not released .
U.S. Trade Representative Susan Schwab said the two countries are still finalizing the details but hope to sign a formal document at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in Hanoi next week .
The United States has been the last W.T.O . member to reach an bilateral pact with Russia .
Moscow would then enter into membership negotiations with the entire trade organization .
The World Health Organization is warning of the danger of small , undetected bird flu outbreaks in China , following the country 's third confirmed human fatality from the virus .
China announced on Thursday the latest bird flu victim was a 41-year-old woman in Fujian province who had died last week .
No outbreaks were reported in the area where she lived , and authorities are unsure how she contracted the virus .
The WHO 's spokesman in Beijing , Roy Wadia , said Friday many bird flu outbreaks among wild birds and poultry in China are small and hard to detect .
He said it is hard for China to alert the public when infected birds die in small numbers .
Police in Indian Kashmir say a Muslim woman has died when a bomb she was carrying exploded .
A militant group claimed she was a suicide bomber who killed or injured five soldiers , but police denied there were any casualties .
The separatist group , Jaish-e-Mohammad , called the Srinagar-based Current News Service Thursday to say she blew up an army vehicle , killing five soldiers .
A spokesman identified the attacker as Hafsa , a member of the women 's wing of the group .
While Kashmiri militants use women members for transporting arms and explosives , they have never used them as suicide bombers .
Muslim separatists in Indian Kashmir are fighting for an independent Kashmir or its merger with neighboring Pakistan .
The fight against Indian rule has killed tens of thousands of people since it began in 1989 .
World oil prices rose to another record high after a government report showed a decline in U.S. stocks of gasoline Wednesday .
The price of crude oil for future delivery hit $ 64.35 cents a barrel after the U.S. Energy Department reported the sixth-straight week of falling gasoline stocks .
The report showed gasoline supplies falling last week by just over two million barrels to a total of 203.1 million barrels .
The closely watched report also showed an unexpected increase in crude oil supplies , prompting an initial decline in oil prices .
Oil prices are about 42 percent higher than they were a year ago .
Analysts say strong demand and worries about possible disruptions in supplies are key reasons for the higher prices .
The new head of the U.S. Federal Reserve , Ben Bernanke , was formally sworn in to office Wednesday morning in Washington .
Bernanke succeeds Alan Greenspan and is expected to continue his fight to contain inflation .
Bernanke heads the committee that sets the key U.S. interest rate .
Tuesday , on Greenspan 's last day as chairman , the committee hiked interest rates one quarter of a percent in an effort to cool the economy and fend off inflation .
Fed officials said they remain concerned about high energy prices and worry that busier factories and low unemployment could raise production costs and increase inflation .
Most analysts expect Bernanke and his colleagues to raise interest rates at least one more time at their next meeting on March 28 .
A prison riot in Venezuela has killed seven inmates and wounded 11 more .
Prison officials said the riot broke out late Monday , as inmates battled for control of cell blocks inside the prison west of Caracas .
It is unclear whether prison authorities have quelled the riot .
Violence is common in Venezuela 's overcrowded prisons , where about 20,000 inmates live in facilities built to hold 15,000 people .
Iraqi police have detained a Saudi militant found crossing the border into Iraq .
Police said Abdullah Saleh al-Harbi is one of a group of militants that attacked a Saudi oil facility last week .
They say al-Harbi claimed to be on his way to the northern Iraqi city of Mosul , where he was to meet al-Qaida contacts .
Iraqi authorities say al-Harbi will be taken to Baghdad for interrogation .
However , Saudi officials have said the kingdom has no information about al-Harbi being a wanted militant .
The arrest comes days after Saudi officials reported killing the leader of al-Qaida forces operating in the kingdom in a firefight .
Al-Qaida 's Saudi branch has claimed responsibility for last week 's failed attack on the oil facility and has vowed to hit other Saudi oil installations .
Experts and policy makers from around the world have gathered in Cameroon to discuss new ways to battle malaria , which remains one of Africa 's main killers .
About 1,500 doctors , scientists and health workers are expected to attend the week-long Pan-Africa malaria conference in Cameroon 's capital , Yaounde .
The event was organized by the Multilateral Initiative on Malaria , a global alliance of organizations .
Topics to be covered include new drug treatment methods , prevention techniques , and the development of a malaria vaccine .
The deputy director of the London-based Gates Malaria Partnership , created four years ago by U.S. computer magnate Bill Gates , says the foundation recently approved grants to fund more malaria programs in Africa .
The Multilateral Initiative on Malaria estimates that an African child dies from malaria every 30 seconds .
U.S. National Security Advisor Stephen Hadley says he can not confirm reports that terror leader Musab al-Zarqawi has been seriously wounded in Iraq .
But Mr. Hadley told U.S. television that Zarqawi heads a lethal network and his death would lead to a significant difference in the level of violence in Iraqi .
His comments came after London 's Sunday Times quoted an Iraqi doctor who says he treated Zarqawi at a hospital in Ramadi on Wednesday .
The Times report says the doctor was debriefed by U.S. authorities on Friday .
The doctor said the terrorist was bleeding heavily when treated and left despite recommendations that he remain under hospital care .
Saturday , the U.S. military ended a week-long offensive against insurgents holed up near the border town of al-Qaim .
Authorities said nine Marines and 125 insurgents were killed in the fighting .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai has marked the Muslim holiday of Eid al-Fitr with a call for peace .
Mr. Karzai called on Taliban militants Sunday to renounce violence and join the peace process .
He says insurgents can lay down their arms and help rebuild their war-torn country .
Meanwhile , the Taliban 's leader has made his own statement for the festival of Eid .
Mullah Omar warns that U.S. and NATO forces will face defeat in Afghanistan .
In a statement Saturday , Omar said Westerners need only study Afghanistan 's history to see that they will fail .
The Taliban leader is thought to be in Pakistan but has not been seen in public for years .
An Israeli newspaper reports that Prime Minister Ehud Olmert is urging the United States to impose a naval blockade on Iran in an effort to curb its controversial nuclear program .
Israel 's Haaretz newspaper says Wednesday that Mr. Olmert raised the issue during a meeting Monday with U.S. House of Representatives speaker Nancy Pelosi .
The report says Mr. Olmert told Pelosi that the present economic sanctions on Iran have exhausted themselves , and that aggressive action could be taken that is not violent .
According to the article , Mr. Olmert says international restrictions also should be placed on Iranian aircraft , business executives and senior officials .
Israeli government spokesman Mark Regev would not confirm the information .
The United States , Israel and other countries accuse Iran of trying to develop nuclear weapons under cover of a civilian energy program .
Iran denies the charges .
Israeli troops have killed two Islamic Jihad militants in a clash near the West Bank town of Jenin .
Islamic Jihad says one of the two militants who died in the gun battle was a top leader of the group , Nidal Abu Saada .
Israeli and Palestinian officials said Israeli troops had surrounded a house near Jenin in order to arrest the militants when gunfire broke out .
Islamic Jihad has carried out a string of recent suicide attacks in Israel .
Elsewhere in the West Bank , Israeli soldiers prepared to evict Jewish settlers and activists from a hilltop settlement , a section of Amona , near Ramallah .
Hundreds of settler activists entered the area Tuesday in an attempt to resist the eviction , planned for Wednesday .
A British newspaper quotes Britain 's top military commander in Baghdad as saying the first pull-out of British troops from Iraq could begin in a matter of months , with a final withdrawal by mid-2008 .
The Daily Telegraph quotes General Nick Houghton as saying a withdrawal plan is under consideration .
The Telegraph Tuesday quotes General Houghton as saying a pull-out over two years would prevent Britain 's 8,000 troops from " overstaying our welcome " , while allowing time for Iraqi security forces to consolidate .
Britain 's Defense Ministry says the general 's plan depends on conditions in Iraq .
And the chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff General Peter Pace Sunday flatly denied recent media reports of a scheduled withdrawal of American and British forces .
British and U.S. officials have repeatedly stressed that coalition commanders would assess conditions on the ground and adjust troop levels as necessary .
The great-granddaughter of South Africa 's anti-apartheid leader Nelson Mandela has been killed in a car crash as she traveled home from the concert kick-off for the 2010 soccer World Cup .
The Nelson Mandela Foundation said Zenani Mandela died in the one-car accident on a Johannesburg highway .
It said no one else was injured in the crash .
Police in Johannesburg have charged the driver with drunk driving and say they are considering " culpable homicide " charges as well .
Zenani had celebrated her 13th birthday only two days earlier .
She is one of nine great-grandchildren of Mr. Mandela , who was South Africa 's first black president .
The foundation said the Mandela family asked for privacy as they mourned their loss .
The World Cup soccer championship officially begins Friday , with a match-up between South Africa and Mexico in Johannesburg .
Iraqi authorities have freed more prisoners under a national reconciliation plan announced last week by Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki .
Several hundred detainees were released Thursday from the U.S.-run Abu Ghraib prison , west of Baghdad , and other facilities across the country .
U.S. officials say more prisoners will be freed Friday .
Some 600 prisoners were released last week .
Mr. Maliki has promised to free 2,500 prisoners by the end of the month to foster " reconciliation and national dialogue . "
Authorities say those being freed are not involved in violent crimes or had been detained by mistake .
New computing device will have web browsing , video-conferencing capabilities , ability to run on solar power , says HRD Minister Sibal India has created a prototype for a $ 35 touch-screen laptop that it hopes to make available to thousands of students .
India 's Human Resource Development Minister Kapil Sibal says the computing device will have web browsing and video-conferencing capabilities .
The iPad-like gadget will also have the ability to run on solar power .
The Linux-based computer , introduced by the Indian Institute of Technology and the Indian Institute of Science , should be available by 2011 .
Sibal says there are plans for the device to become even cheaper , with the price dropping to $ 20 and eventually $ 10 .
The inexpensive laptop is part of a nationwide Indian education initiative that also includes installing broadband capabilities on the nation 's more than 22,000 college campuses .
Every two to four years , the Perito Moreno Glacier in Los Glacieres National Park , Argentina breaks apart .
It 's a spectacular sight that attracts thousands .
This year , for the first time in memory , the breakup took place during the southern hemisphere 's winter .
VOA 's Paul Sisco has more .
Bolivian President Evo Morales says he will not agree to a U.S. request to return weapons and equipment in an ongoing disagreement over the naming of a new commander for Bolivia 's counterterrorism unit .
Mr. Morales responded Tuesday to a written request by the U.S. Embassy that objected to the new unit commander .
Mr. Morales has called the U.S. request blackmail .
U.S. officials have confirmed that Washington will cancel its counterterrorism programs in Bolivia after its decision last week to drop the country from its list of anti-terrorism partners .
The lawyer for jailed Iranian-American journalist Roxana Saberi says an Iranian court will hear the appeal against her jail sentence on Sunday .
Lawyer Abdolsamad Khorramshahi made the announcement Saturday .
It is not clear how long it will take the court to render a verdict in the case of Saberi , who was sentenced to eight years in prison last month on espionage charges .
Her family and the U.S. government say the charges against her are baseless .
Saberi 's father , Reza Saberi , says the 32-year-old freelance journalist ended a hunger strike Monday after refusing to eat for nearly two weeks .
Iran has criticized international involvement in the case , saying the judiciary is independent and outside interference contradicts international norms .
The former head of a self-proclaimed Serb republic in Croatia has gone on trial before The Hague tribunal on charges of war crimes and violating the laws and customs of war .
Milan Martic is accused of murder , torture and ethnic cleansing of Croats and Muslims in Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina .
He is accused of actively supporting a criminal enterprise aimed at expelling Croats and Muslims from certain areas of the two countries with the goal of eventually including the regions in a future greater Serbia .
The indictment mentions that in 1995 , Mr. Martic ordered the bombardment by Serb artillery of downtown Zagreb , the Croatian capital .
The attacks caused seven deaths and numerous injuries .
At the time of the attacks , Mr. Martic was head of the self-proclaimed Republic of Serbian Krajina , a Serb entity opposing Croatia 's independence from Yugoslavia .
Iranian media is reporting that the country 's armed forces have staged a mock interception of six foreign planes since the start of a series of military exercises Tuesday .
The reports Wednesday quote a military exercise spokesman , General Hamid Arjangi , as saying " hypothetical enemy planes " crossed into Iranian air space but were turned back by Iranian fighter jets and artillery systems .
Official Iranian media blasted foreign press agencies that quoted state officials Wednesday as saying unknown foreign aircraft violated Iranian airspace .
Iran is in its second day of the its air force 's five-day military exercise to test the country 's ability to deter air strikes .
The war games are being held near nuclear facilities .
Iran says the exercises include tests of long-range missiles .
Tehran says it is the biggest exercise of its kind in the country .
Tehran conducts war games several times a year , often showcasing new military systems .
At least 10 people are dead after Typhoon Conson struck the main Philippine island Luzon Wednesday .
The typhoon struck the capital city Manila and surrounding areas Wednesday morning , carrying maximum wind gusts of 120 kilometers an hour .
Electricity was knocked out throughout Luzon , with tree branches and other debris left scattered across rain-swept streets .
The dead include four people who drowned and two others killed by falling trees .
At least 40 people are missing , including 11 fishermen last spotted off the coast of the central island Catandunes .
Typhoon Conson headed out over the South China Sea after striking Luzon .
During a meeting of the government 's National Disaster Coordinating Council Wednesday , new Philippine President Benigno Aquino scolded the government 's weather bureau for failing to predict the storm would hit Manila .
Experts studying the flooding of New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina say the breach of key floodwalls might have been caused by soft soil under the walls , a problem the Army Corps of Engineers had been warned about .
Engineers from the American Society of Civil Engineers and the University of California at Berkeley said Friday there was no evidence that the floodwaters surged over the tops of the floodwalls at 17th Street or London Avenue Canals , as previously thought .
Instead , they said , soft soil may have given way underneath the walls - a danger a contracting company pointed out to the Army Corps of Engineers in the early 1990s .
In one section of the 17th Street canal , a levee embankment had moved more than 10 meters from its original spot .
The experts also said they found at least 10 breaches and possibly more in the walls .
Norway says it will allow hunters to kill more than one thousand whales next year - the highest number allowed since the country resumed commercial whaling more than a decade ago .
Norway 's Fisheries Ministry said Wednesday it will raise the quota of minke whales that can be culled by 30 percent , to 1 , 52 whales .
The Norwegian parliament approved the higher quota in a unanimous vote .
Norway has said there are more than enough minke whales in the North Atlantic to sustain increased hunting .
But for the past two years , Norwegian whale hunters have fallen short of the quotas .
Norway is the only country that allows commercial whaling , in defiance of a global ban imposed by the International Whaling Commission in 1986 .
Al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden has warned the European Union that there will be a strong reaction against cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed published in European newspapers .
In an audio recording posted to an al-Qaida-affiliated Web site late Wednesday , a voice said to be bin-Laden 's described the publishing of the cartoons as part of a new crusade against Islam that involved Pope Benedict - head of the Catholic Church .
Satirical cartoons featuring Islam 's Prophet Mohammed were published in Danish newspapers in 2006 , sparking mass riots in Islamic nations worldwide .
Bin-Laden 's latest recorded statement , entitled " The response will be what you see , not what you hear " comes on the fifth anniversary of the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq .
The message is bin Laden 's first public statement since late last year .
United Nations agencies say it will cost up to $ 50 million to clean up an oil spill caused by Israel 's bombing of a Lebanese power plant last month .
U.N. officials met experts from Lebanon , Greece , Syria , Turkey and the European Union Thursday in Athens to discuss the 15,000-ton oil slick .
Authorities say four weeks of fighting following the spill kept them from assessing the damage , but they say this week 's cease-fire makes it possible to deal with it .
Officials warn the spill has already caused severe damage to the coastline and may also have badly affected the region 's marine life .
Dubai Ports World says it will take months to sell its holdings in the United States , and these assets are worth " hundreds of millions " of dollars .
DP World was in the middle of a recent political storm in the U.S. after the company , based in the United Arab Emirates , purchased facilities in ports around the world , including some U.S. container and passenger terminals .
Members of the U.S. Congress and others expressed concern that DP World would not do enough to protect U.S. ports from terror attack .
DP World said last week that it would " transfer " its U.S. holdings to a U.S. entity , but gave few details .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has been rushed to a Jerusalem hospital after suffering his second stroke in less than three weeks .
Doctors at Hadassah Hospital said the stroke Wednesday was " significant , " and that Mr. Sharon was given anesthetic after being admitted to the clinic .
The prime minister 's office said that while Mr. Sharon was under anesthetic , his duties were transferred to his deputy , Ehud Olmert .
Earlier , his office said the 77-year-old was being accompanied by his personal physician as he was taken to the hospital from his ranch in southern Israel .
Mr. Sharon was admitted to the same hospital where he was to undergo a procedure Thursday to correct a defect in his heart .
That procedure was ordered after Mr. Sharon suffered a mild stroke last month .
A group of Indian left wing activists has protested the planned entry of U.S. retailer Wal-Mart into India 's retail market .
About 100 demonstrators rallied outside Indian government offices in the capital , New Delhi , Thursday demanding Wal-Mart stay out of the country .
The world 's largest retailer is planning to set up a chain of stores in India as part of a joint venture with India 's Bharti Retail .
Wal-Mart 's vice chairman , Michael Duke , visited shopping malls in Mumbai today to learn more about the Indian retail sector .
He is to have talks on the joint venture with Bharti officials in New Delhi Friday .
India 's retail industry is dominated by small shopkeepers who fear that the entry of large retailers could put many of them out of business .
A Republican-led U.S. Senate committee has rejected a proposed investigation of the Bush administration 's domestic surveillance program .
The Senate Intelligence Committee voted along party lines Tuesday to reject the proposal by Senator Jay Rockefeller , a Democrat .
Chairman Pat Roberts said the committee agreed to create a subcommittee for " enhanced oversight " of the program , in which the government monitors phone conversations and e-mails between people in the United States and suspected terrorists abroad without court approval .
Also Tuesday , the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill extending the anti-terrorism law known as the U.S.A .
Patriot Act , which was first enacted after the September 11 , 2001 attacks in the United States .
The Patriot Act expands the government 's power to obtain private records , conduct wiretaps and share information between agencies .
Critics say it threatens civil liberties .
Cuba says it has restored formal relations with Spain , a year after the European Union imposed diplomatic sanctions on the communist island .
Cuban Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Roque announced the decision Thursday , shortly before a meeting in Havana with new Spanish Ambassador Carlos Zaldivar .
The European Union imposed the sanctions after Cuba 's 2003 detainment of 75 dissidents , and the execution of three men who tried to hijack a ferry to the United States .
No additional information has been given by either government .
Snow , freezing rain , gusting winds and record low temperatures in Europe are claiming lives and making for treacherous travel across the continent .
As many as 25 deaths have been reported .
Authorities say many of the victims are homeless people who died as a result of exposure to the brutal winter elements .
Vehicle accidents on ice-covered roads have caused many injuries and closed highways .
The M-1 motorway connecting Budapest with Vienna was closed Friday after a multi-car pile-up that killed a boy .
In Slovakia , the Bratislava-Trnava highway was closed after a 40-car accident killed at least one person and injured 20 others .
The storms disrupted rail , road and air transport across the region .
Electricity outages were reported Friday in Austria and Sweden .
New Year 's revelers across Europe are being advised to take measures to protect themselves against the extreme weather conditions .
Thousands of French workers have marched through Paris and other cities protesting planned government pension reforms as fishermen continued protests against soaring fuel costs .
Police say about 30,000 protesters marched in the French capital and tens of thousands in other cities protesting changes that will require them to work 41 years to get a pension , an increase of one year .
Trade union officials put the number of protesters nationwide at 7,00,000 .
The protests hobbled train traffic .
But subway service in Paris has been largely unaffected .
Meanwhile , fishermen rejected as inadequate a new government package aimed at compensating them for soaring fuel prices and continued blocking entry to some ports .
A nine-day strike by transportation workers last November cost the French economy an estimated $ 400 million a day .
Strikes in 1995 forced then-President Jacques Chirac to back down from reform plans .
Italian soldiers have begun arriving in western Afghanistan , under plans by NATO to expand its peacekeeping mission in the country .
The Turkish commander of the International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan , Lieutenant General Ethem Erdagi , said an initial deployment of Italian troops started to arrive today in the main western city of Herat .
Soldiers from Spain , Greece and Lithuania are due in the region later .
NATO took command of ISAF in 2003 .
Until now , its peacekeeping troops have only been deployed in the Afghan capital Kabul and the north of the country .
NATO defense ministers meeting in France last month approved plans to expand the peacekeeping mission .
The United States has been pressing for the expansion to relieve pressure on stretched American forces .
Police on horseback charged into crowds of angry British students demonstrating in central London on Thursday to protest university tuition hikes .
Lawmakers inside Parliament voted in favor of a controversial bill raising university fees in England , part of the government 's larger austerity plan .
Government officials have said the increases , which triple the current fees , are necessary to maintain the high quality of education in universities .
Riot police wielding batons scuffled with some students in front of London 's Houses of Parliament as they pushed up against a police barricade .
Students threw sticks at police and set off smoke bombs in front of the horses .
Television coverage showed at least one demonstrator being handcuffed , and one police officer on the ground .
It was the latest in a series of student protests against the fee hike , which would raise the yearly bill to about $ 14,000 .
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao is ruling out plans to allow more democracy in China 's near future because he says the country must focus first on economic development .
In a speech published by China 's state-run media Tuesday , Mr. Wen said that China will remain in the primary state of socialism for a long time .
Mr. Wen did say , however , that China would develop its own democratic policies , and that a socialist system is not contradictory to those policies .
China 's annual parliamentary session is to open next week , with economic reform and social issues expected to be a core focus .
China 's economy has grown tremendously in recent years .
But leaders of China 's one-party system have carried out only limited democratic and political reforms .
The leader of Northern Ireland 's leading Protestant party is warning that the peace process in the British province is at risk unless the Irish Republican Army takes immediate steps toward disarming .
Democratic Unionist Party leader Ian Paisley said he is amazed that with only days ahead of the British and Irish government deadline for agreement , the Catholic IRA has not contacted monitors who are to oversee the group 's disarmament .
He spoke after talks in Belfast with the monitors .
Mr. Paisley said any progress on restoring Northern Ireland 's power-sharing government requires proof of IRA action instead of continued deception .
Meanwhile , Jerry Adams , the leader of the IRA 's political arm , Sinn Fein , expressed doubt whether Mr. Paisley is ready for agreement .
Britain suspended Northern Ireland 's power sharing government in 2002 amid charges of IRA spying on provincial officials .
U.S. officials are downplaying media reports that Washington is investigating possible Iranian involvement in an attack in Iraq that killed five U.S. soldiers .
At the State Department , a senior U.S. official said he does not know anything to substantiate the conclusion that Iran was involved , and called the idea a " supposition . "
White House spokesman Tony Snow said he would not comment on what it called " speculation " about Iranian involvement in the attack last Saturday in Karbala .
The New York Times and CNN had reported that the Defense Department is trying to determine whether Iranians or Iranian-trained operatives carried out the attack .
The U.S. military has said the attack was well coordinated , with assailants dressed in U.S. military-style uniforms and driving vehicles similar to those used by U.S. troops .
The United States is recalling to active duty several thousand Marines to bolster American military units in Iraq and Afghanistan .
A military spokesman says the reservists are men and women who returned to civilian life after previous active-duty service .
They will fill critical shortages among military-police units , intelligence and communications specialists .
President Bush issued an order authorizing the involuntary callup .
The Marines Corps has 35,000 reserve troops with time remaining on eight-year commitments made when they enlisted .
Mr. Bush 's order limits the number of those who can be recalled to 2,500 at a time .
Meanwhile , in Iraq , U.S. military officials report a declining trend in violence this month in Baghdad .
But insurgents carried out more attacks Wednesday , including a suicide bombing in Mosul that killed a woman and wounded eight policemen .
Malawi 's President , Bingu wa Mutharika , says a motion in parliament to impeach him will not stop his campaign against corruption .
Addressing a church service Sunday , Mr. wa Mutharika said there are those in parliament who want to remove him from office because of his anti-corruption campaign .
But he said no threat of impeachment would stop his so-called " zero tolerance " policy .
On Friday , the speaker of parliament , Louis Chimango , introduced an impeachment motion charging him with ignoring the constitution in setting up his own party and with misuse of public funds .
Mr. wa Mutharika , a former economist , has won praise from donor nations and aid agencies for his efforts to adopt economic reforms and stamp out corruption .
England 's bowlers have picked apart Sri Lanka 's lineup , with the host nation dismissed for only 188 runs on the first day of their first test match at Asgiriya Stadium in Kandy , Sri Lanka .
England lost the toss , but seam bowler Matthew Hoggard and spinner Monty Panesar took a total of seven wickets .
Hoggard finished at Apr-29 while Panesar was Mar-46 .
Kumar Sangakkara top scored for Sri Lanka with 92 runs , including 13 fours before being caught out by Paul Collingwood .
Prasanna Jayawardene added another 51 runs but he was caught out by Alastair Cook on a ball bowled by Panesar .
The second test at the Sinhalese Sports Club in Colombo starts December ninth .
The third test is scheduled for Galle International Stadium beginning December 18th .
England won the five-match , one-day series , 03-Feb .
President Barack Obama has reaffirmed his belief in a woman 's right to choose whether to have an abortion as tens of thousands of abortion opponents held their annual rally in Washington .
President Obama issued a statement Thursday calling abortion a sensitive and divisive issue .
While he said the government must not intrude in private family matters , the country is united on the need to prevent unintended pregnancies .
Thursday 's annual gathering , which supporters call the Right to Life March , came on the 36th anniversary of Roe versus Wade - the U.S. Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion .
Supporters of the landmark decision say it protects women 's lives and makes the right to choose to have a safe and legal abortion sacred .
Abortion opponents say life starts at conception and liken abortion to genocide .
They urge women with unwanted pregnancies to carry their babies to term and give them up for adoption .
The party of Liberian presidential candidate George Weah has called for a re-run of Tuesday 's run-off vote , charging electoral fraud .
The call comes as Liberians await official confirmation of former Finance Minister Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf 's apparent victory .
With 99 percent of the votes counted , Mrs. Johnson-Sirleaf has won about 60 percent of the vote to 40 percent for Mr. Weah , a former football ( soccer ) star .
Final results are expected on Tuesday .
The National Election Commission says it will hear Mr. Weah 's complaints of election irregularities on Wednesday .
International observers say there is no evidence of widespread fraud in the run-off .
Saturday in the capital , Monrovia , hundreds of Mr. Weah 's supporters gathered in front of United Nations headquarters to demand a new election .
U.N. peacekeepers dispersed the crowd peacefully .
The Afghan Islamic Press says the Taleban has rejected a U.S. appeal for its fighters to surrender under a government offer of amnesty .
The Pakistan-based news organization quoted Taleban spokesman Latifullah Hakimi Friday as saying the group considers the U.S. offer an attempt to divide it .
The Afghan Islamic Press also quotes Mr. Hakimi as saying the Taleban will never stop fighting as long as U.S. troops remain in Afghanistan .
Thursday , U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Zalmay Khalilzad urged Taleban fighters to lay down their arms under an Afghan government offer of amnesty .
Ambassador Khalilzad said U.S. forces will cooperate with the the amnesty , which he said will not apply to those who , have committed " crimes against the Afghan people . "
Officials in Afghanistan say multiple suicide bombers attacked the governor 's compound in the southern Afghan city of Kandahar Saturday , killing five policemen .
Provincial official Ahmad Wali Karzai , who is the president 's brother , says three suicide bombers were involved in the attack .
There are reports that at least one of the bombers detonated his explosives outside the compound , while the others may have been inside the compound .
The Taliban has claimed responsibility for the attack .
Earlier this month , four suicide bombers struck a provincial council office in Kandahar , killing 13 people .
Taliban militants also claimed responsibility for that attack .
China 's ambassador to the United Nations in Geneva says the United States should " shut up " about his country 's military spending .
Sha Zukang was responding Thursday to a BBC interviewer .
The interviewer had asked him about U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld 's assertion that much of China 's military spending is concealed .
Sha said the United States should keep quiet and not dictate policy to China .
He said the United States itself accounts for half of the world 's military spending .
He also said China would sacrifice lives if Taiwan declares independence .
He said for China , one inch of territory is more valuable than the lives of its people .
He added China has a sacred duty to defend its state sovereignty .
Ethiopia 's main opposition coalition has reaffirmed its commitment to a non-violence pact with the government - a deal aimed at ending post-election violence in the country .
The Coalition for Unity and Democracy , or CUD , Sunday said it " unequivocally " accepts the terms of Friday 's deal with Ethiopia 's ruling party .
The pact was negotiated in an effort to stop recent violence sparked by last month 's election results .
At least 29 people were killed in a protest last week , when police opened fire on crowds alleging fraud during the vote .
Ethiopia 's government has accused the opposition of engineering the protests and breaking the non-violence pact .
Meanwhile , opposition officials say CUD leader , Hailu Shawel , remains under house arrest for a second day .
Officials say attempts to contact Mr. Hailu have failed because his telephone is not working .
Saudi authorities say they have arrested five suspected terrorists linked to a February attack on the world 's largest oil facility , located in the eastern part of the kingdom .
A Saudi Interior Ministry statement said the militants are linked to the foiled assault on the Abqaiq compound February 24 .
Police said militants tried to drive two vehicles loaded with explosives past barricades and into the oil facility , which handles about two-thirds of the country 's crude .
Authorities said the attack failed when two guards opened fire and the attack vehicles exploded .
Two guards and two militants were killed .
The Al-Qaida terror network claimed responsibility for that attack .
In late March , Saudi Arabia said it had arrested 40 suspected militants , including eight allegedly linked to the February attack .
The Hubble Space Telescope has captured a mosaic of images to reveal the most complete picture of the early universe , with thousands of galaxies in " various stages of assembly . "
The U.S. space agency NASA said Tuesday that the farthest galaxies in the snapshot are seen as they appeared more than 13 billion years ago , or roughly 650 million years after the Big Bang - the massive explosion that many scientists believe formed our universe .
The Hubble picture displays the older , smaller galaxies together with closer , newer and more mature ones .
The result is a galactic family photo of sorts that portrays galaxies in various stages of evolution .
NASA says this is the most detailed picture of the universe yet in terms of clarity , accuracy and depth .
The Hubble Space Telescope is a joint project between NASA and the European Space Agency .
Yasser Arafat has been buried at his West Bank compound , as a sea of Palestinian mourners chanted " With our soul , with our blood , we will support you Abu Ammar . "
The 75-year-old leader , also known by his nom de guerre " Abu Ammar , " was laid to rest at the compound where he spent the last three-and-a-half years of his life as a virtual prisoner of Israel .
Palestinian masons worked through the night at the Muqataa compound to prepare his grave .
Tens of thousands of mourners waving Palestinian flags , and photos of their leader greeted the military helicopter as it brought his flag-draped coffin from a funeral in Cairo .
Arab royalty and heads-of-state , joined by European , American and other international officials , gathered for the service at a mosque near Cairo 's airport .
Mr. Arafat died early Thursday in a Paris hospital after a brief but undisclosed illness .
The Sri Lankan military says six soldiers have been killed and another one wounded by a land mine explosion in the country 's volatile north .
The military says the blast , blamed on Tamil Tiger rebels , hit the soldiers Sunday as they were transporting meals to their colleagues in Jaffna , some 400 kilometers north of Colombo .
The attack prompted Scandinavian monitors overseeing Sri Lanka 's truce with Tamil Tiger rebels to warn of " irreparable deterioration " of security in the island nation .
The monitoring mission appealed to all sides to calm the situation before it escalates further .
Tension has been mounting in Sri Lanka since Tamil Tiger leader V. Prabhakaran warned that the rebels will intensify their struggle for a Tamil homeland next year if grievances with the government are not resolved .
A religious festival that drew millions of Shi'ite pilgrims to Iraq 's holy city of Karbala has ended without major incident .
Heavy security was in place Saturday for the festival of Shaaban .
It commemorates the birth of ninth-century Imam al-Mahdi al-Muntadar .
Violence elsewhere in Iraq killed at least 12 people .
Bomb attacks in Baghdad left at least two people dead .
And a gunman killed an employee of Iraq 's government-run newspaper in the capital .
On Friday , insurgents firing mortar rounds killed at least three Shi'ite pilgrims in a procession near Karbala .
The United States is warning that it would be a major international concern if North Korea launched a long-range ballistic missile .
Reports by Japanese media say North Korea may be preparing to test-fire such a weapon .
A U.S. State Department spokesman said Friday that a missile launch would also violate an agreement reached in September at the last round of six-party talks on North Korea 's nuclear program .
On Friday Japanese broadcaster NHK quoted unidentified South Korean government officials as saying that satellite pictures show signs of activity at a launch site in northeastern North Korea .
Japan 's Defense Agency quickly responded , saying that Tokyo does not believe a launch is imminent .
However , Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso told a parliamentary committee that a launch would be no surprise .
In 1998 , North Korea surprised Japan and governments around the world by firing a long-range missile over Japan into the Pacific Ocean .
Every year on the last Friday in April Americans observe National Arbor Day .
Tree plantings and other events are held all across the United States to focus attention on the importance of trees in our communities and on our planet .
Sponsored by the National Arbor Day Foundation , a non-profit group founded in 1872 , Arbor Day somewhat overshadows another of the Foundation 's national projects .
It is called the " Tree City USA " program , and it recognizes communities that preserve , protect , and defend their trees every day of the year .
VOA 's George Dwyer recently visited a " tree city " just outside Washington .
The White House says President Bush will hold a news conference shortly .
A spokeswoman did not say what topics the president plans to address in the meeting with reporters , which is scheduled to take place in the Rose Garden of the White House .
The announcement comes one day after the president nominated White House Counsel Harriet Miers to replace retiring Justice Sandra Day O'Connor on the Supreme Court .
At least three car bombs have exploded in Baghdad , wounding at least six people .
Iraqi police say the bombs went off almost simultaneously near a market in the southern part of the city .
The violence occurred as Iraqi politicians continued in their efforts to form a new government .
Shi'ite , Sunni and Kurdish politicians have been unable to agree on a cabinet .
Pressure has been mounting on Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari , a Shi'ite , to give up his post .
Sunni politicians say Mr. al-Jaafari is a divisive and ineffective leader .
The United States has been pressuring Iraqi politicians to form a new government , which Washington believes will help stem the violence .
Speaking Friday in northern England , U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said the United States had probably made thousands of errors in Iraq , but she defended the decision to overthrow Saddam Hussein .
President Bush has urged recipients of Medicare , the national health care program for seniors , to sign up for a new prescription drug program .
In a broadcast on U.S. radio Saturday , Mr. Bush said the prescription drug program is the greatest advance in health care for U.S. seniors since the introduction of Medicare itself 40 years ago .
He said the new benefit will help pay for preventative medication that costs far less than the price of treating a serious illness .
He said the days of making painful sacrifices to pay for prescription drugs are now over .
Mr. Bush also urged friends and family of the elderly to help their loved ones enroll , by gathering information , making a phone call , or helping them to fill out forms .
Thousands of people in cities across Britain have rallied to protest Israeli military action in Lebanon .
A march through central London Saturday drew the largest numbers .
Police estimate that crowd at seven thousand people .
Many of them carried Lebanese flags .
British Muslim groups organized the protests .
The current Mideast crisis began July 12 , when Hezbollah guerrillas kidnapped two Israeli soldiers and killed eight in a raid .
Israel then launched an offensive on Hezbollah militias based in Lebanon .
More than 300 Lebanese and 34 Israelis have died in the violence .
Hundreds more have been wounded .
Confessed swindler Bernard Madoff will have to wait a bit longer to find out how long his prison sentence will be .
He could get up to 150 years for stealing tens of billions of dollars from investment clients through an elaborate scheme of lies .
The judge has put off Madoff 's sentencing until June 29 .
Some of Madoff 's many victims are expected to speak to the court before the judge pronounces the sentence .
Madoff 's $ 65 billion fraud is the largest in U.S. history and it went undetected by U.S. financial regulators for perhaps 20 years .
Thursday , the Securities and Exchange Commission voted to tighten regulations by subjecting investment advisers who hold clients ' money to surprise inspections by independent auditors once a year .
The human rights group Amnesty International says China is fast emerging as one of the world 's biggest , most secretive and irresponsible arms exporters .
Amnesty says Chinese weapons sales to Sudan , Nepal and Burma have aggravated conflicts there and encouraged repressive rule in those countries .
In a new report , Amnesty accuses China of shipping tens of thousands of rifles and grenades to Nepal 's security forces .
It also says Beijing has exported hundreds of military trucks to Burma and Sudan .
The London-based group says China 's arms exports , estimated to exceed $ 1 billion a year , often involve the exchange of weapons for raw materials to fuel the country 's rapid economic growth .
China rarely confirms sales of military equipment - a policy that has compounded U.S. concerns about Beijing 's military buildup and what Washington says is a lack of transparency in its defense policies .
Former Haitian leader Jean Bertrand Aristide says he will not play a role in his country 's politics once he returns home .
The former president and ex-priest told international news agencies in Pretoria , South Africa Wednesday , that he wants to return to Haiti to teach .
Mr. Aristide has been living in exile in South Africa since he was forced out of office in February 2004 after an armed uprising .
Mr. Aristide says the date of his return depends upon negotiations between Haitian President-elect Rene Preval , the United Nations and other interested parties .
Mr. Preval , a former protégé of Mr. Aristide , was declared the winner of Haiti 's February 7 presidential elections last week .
The Lebanese army Tuesday agreed to a ceasefire request from Islamic militants to allow their families to leave a Palestinian refugee camp where the two factions have been fighting for months .
The mediators , from the Palestinian Cleric 's Association , say Fatah al-Islam asked them late Monday for help in arranging a truce in the fighting at Nahr al-Bared camp near the northern port city of Tripoli .
In the past , the clerics ' group has tried but failed to mediate between the militants and the army , which is demanding an unconditional surrender of remaining fighters .
Most of the camp 's refugees have fled since fighting began in May .
Also Tuesday Lebanon 's military says a soldier was killed during fighting at Nahr al-Bared .
At least 200 people , including 141 soldiers , have been killed in the battles .
The U.S. State Department has labeled al-Qaida-inspired Fatah al-Islam a terrorist organization .
Campaigning has ended for the first round of local Palestinian elections to be held on Thursday .
Some 1,40,000 Palestinians are eligible to vote in 26 communities around the West Bank .
More than 800 people are running for local offices .
A second round of voting in other communities is set for early in the new year , after presidential elections that are scheduled for January 9 .
The vast majority of candidates in the local elections are members of the mainstream Fatah party .
Results from Thursday 's elections are not expected to be made public until the end of the week .
Taleban rebels in Afghanistan have launched attacks in the lead-up to Sunday 's parliamentary elections , in an effort to disrupt the vote .
Government officials say security forces arrested 20 suspected rebels Saturday , who were trying to blow up a large dam in southern Afghanistan .
Late Friday , three police officers were killed when Taleban guerillas ambushed their patrol near the capital .
In a separate attack , rebels ambushed police as they patrolled the main Kabul - Kandahar highway .
Seven rebels were killed in the ensuing firefight .
Seven national assembly candidates and several poll workers have also been the victims of election-related violence .
The Taleban have called for an election boycott , threatening attacks on foreign troops , but not on voters .
Political leaders representing Iraq 's ethnic and religious groups remain at odds over key provisions of a new constitution , despite Monday 's deadline for completion of a draft document .
Friday prayers brought calls from Sunni Arab clerics for followers to reject federalism and vote against a constitution containing provisions that divide the country .
On Thursday , Abdul-Aziz al-Hakim , the leader of Iraq 's largest Shi'ite party , the Supreme Council for Islamic Revolution announced his support for a federal region in central and southern Iraq .
Iraq 's Kurds also favor a federal structure that will protect their autonomous status in the country 's north .
The draft is to be submitted to Iraq 's National Assembly Monday for debate before an October referendum .
In other developments , a roadside bomb attack early Friday killed an American soldier who was on patrol in Tikrit , north of Baghdad .
Many commuters in the Brazilian city of Rio de Janeiro were stranded Friday as the city cut back bus service to curb deadly gang attacks on public transportation .
City officials took the measure after gangs set fire to at least six buses Thursday , burning seven people alive .
Gang members also attacked police stations .
Two policemen , seven alleged gang members , and two other civilians were reported killed , in addition to the victims on the bus .
Police said the motive for the apparently coordinated attacks was not immediately clear .
Some officials said it may be linked to anti-drug efforts in the city .
Some 200 people in Sao Paulo died earlier this year in a series of attacks by criminal gangs .
Indonesia says it will monitor Islamic boarding schools as part of its effort to fight militant violence and suicide bombings .
Vice President Jusuf Kalla said Thursday that the religious affairs minister will monitor all Islamic boarding schools .
The vice president said he believes there are only a few schools that could be considered possible breeding grounds for terrorists , but he declined to name them .
However , the Al-Mukmin and Al-Islam schools on the island of Java had previously come under scrutiny after several terrorists were found to have studied at them .
The former students include militants convicted in the 2002 Bali bombings and the 2003 bombing of the Marriott hotel in Jakarta .
A Palestinian suicide bomber has blown himself up at an Israeli checkpoint in the northern West Bank , killing one Israeli soldier and at least two Palestinians .
Israeli officials say the bomber struck Thursday , after stepping from a taxi to face soldiers at a makeshift checkpoint near the Israeli border .
Four other Israelis and several Palestinians were wounded .
Israeli authorities said they believed the bomber intended to strike in Tel Aviv .
The bombing occurred as Israeli warplanes and artillery hit targets in the northern Gaza Strip , in a campaign Israel says is aimed at stopping militants from firing rockets into Israel .
Meanwhile , Palestinian security forces continue to hunt for a British human rights activist kidnapped along with her parents Wednesday in southern Gaza .
Authorities say there has been no claim of responsibility and no ransom demands .
Officials in Nigeria say a bomb has exploded at a popular market inside an army barracks in the capital , Abuja .
Nigerian television is reporting that at least 30 people died in the explosion .
Police have not confirmed that figure .
Officials say the bomb went off inside Mammy market where people were eating and drinking to celebrate New Year 's Eve .
No one has claimed responsibility for the attack .
Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan blamed the bombing on the radical Islamist group Boko Haram .
The group claimed responsibility for Christmas Eve bomb attacks in the central city of Jos , and for attacking several churches in the northern city of Maiduguri .
More than 80 people died in those attacks .
Abuja was shaken by car bomb attacks in October .
Militants from the southern oil-producing Niger Delta claimed responsibility for those blasts .
The eldest daughter of former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet has been taken into custody in Santiago , after returning from an unsuccessful bid for asylum in the United States .
Officials say Lucia Pinochet Hiriart was detained at the airport in Santiago Saturday on arrival from Washington .
Like her mother , father and several siblings , she faces tax evasion charges linked to $ 27 million the family allegedly hid in overseas bank accounts .
Pinochet Hiriart fled Chile Sunday , a day before her mother and four siblings were detained there .
They were freed on bail a day later .
In addition to the tax fraud charges , her father , Augusto Pinochet , also faces human rights charges related to his rule of Chile from 1973 to 1990 .
Pakistani officials say the senior officer heading the probe into last week 's suicide attack on former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto has withdrawn from the case .
The home secretary of Sindh province , Ghulam Muhammad Mohtarem , says Manzur Mughal stepped down after Ms. Bhutto accused him of involvement in the alleged torture of her husband while in police custody in 1999 .
Ms. Bhutto survived an assassination attempt last Thursday when suicide attackers struck near her convoy as it drove through the packed streets of Karachi , the capital of Sindh province , hours after she returned to Pakistan , ending years of political exile .
The twice-serving former prime minister has said extremist elements in Pakistan 's political establishment were behind the attack , which killed 139 people .
Investigators have said they suspect two suicide bombers were responsible for the attack .
Israel says the population of its West Bank settlements has grown , even as the country withdraws from the Gaza Strip .
The Israeli Interior Ministry says 2,46,000 Jewish settlers lived in the West Bank as of June , 2005 , about 10,000 more than a year earlier .
A spokesman said the increase resulted from births and an influx of new residents , but he could not give a breakdown for each figure .
Palestinians claim the West Bank and east Jerusalem as part of a future Palestinian state .
Israel captured the territories in the 1967 Mideast war .
Meanwhile , an Israeli woman has died after setting herself on fire last week to protest Israel 's withdrawal from Gaza .
On Tuesday , Israeli troops finished evacuating all 21 Jewish settlements in Gaza and four in the West Bank under Prime Minister Ariel Sharon 's plan to " disengage " from the Palestinians .
United Nations officials say Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has urged Burmese Prime Minister Thein Sein to ensure transparent and inclusive elections in the military-ruled country .
A U.N. spokesperson says Mr. Ban met Saturday with the Burmese premier on the sidelines of a Southeast Asia regional summit in Hanoi , Vietnam .
A statement says the secretary-general also reiterated his call for the release of political prisoners and to lift restrictions on detained pro-Democracy advocate Aung San Suu Kyi .
Burmese Foreign Minister Nyan Win said earlier this week that Aung San Suu Kyi may be freed soon after the November 7 vote .
The election is supposed to transition Burma from military to civilian rule .
It has drawn strong international criticism for imposing rules that ensure most of the seats in parliament will go to a pro-government party .
Iran 's top nuclear official says his country will not abandon its uranium enrichment program , and that the Middle East could become even more unstable if Tehran is referred to the United Nations Security Council for its nuclear activities .
Speaking at an international nuclear technology conference in Tehran Saturday , Hassan Rowhani said if Iran is brought before the Security Council , it could cause problems for the regional energy market .
Iran is the second largest oil producer in OPEC .
Britain , France and Germany are in talks in with Iran , trying to negotiate a permanent end to its uranium enrichment program in exchange for a package of economic incentives .
But Mr. Rowhani complained that talks with the Europeans are moving slowly , and he remained adamant that Iran will never abandon its enrichment activities .
A spokesman for an Iraqi court says the trial of a journalist who threw his shoes at U.S. President George Bush has been postponed .
Muntazer al-Zaidi was scheduled to go on trial Wednesday for the December 14 incident in Baghdad .
He has been charged with assaulting a foreign leader , and faces up to 15 years in jail if convicted .
The Iraqi television journalist threw his shoes at Mr. Bush as the outgoing U.S. president stood next to Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki at a news conference .
Mr. Bush ducked his head and narrowly missed being hit .
Mr. Maliki 's office says Zaidi has confessed to throwing the shoes on the orders of a militant known for beheading people .
The militant who allegedly masterminded the incident has not been identified .
The journalist 's family says he was coerced into writing the confession letter .
Iraq executed three convicted murderers Thursday - the first time the government has carried out the death penalty since Saddam Hussein was in power .
A government spokesman , Laith Kubba , told reporters that the three were hanged at 10 AM local time .
They were convicted of kidnapping , rape and murder .
The presidential council approved their death sentences last month .
But President Jalal Talabani , who opposes the death penalty , refused to authorize the hangings , and instead empowered one of his vice presidents to sign on his behalf .
Iran 's ambassador to the United Nations has assured Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon that Iran will cooperate with the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) on the nation 's nuclear program .
Ambassador Mohammad Khazaee made the remark at a meeting with Mr. Ban during which he personally delivered a letter from Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki .
In it , Mottaki criticizes the latest Security Council sanctions on Iran for its refusal to stop enriching uranium , a process that can be used to make nuclear weapons .
Iran says its nuclear technology is intended for peaceful purposes .
Iran 's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has said the newest U.N. resolution , which tightens existing sanctions on trade , travel and Iran 's foreign assets , is invalid and lacks legal credibility .
Strategically important , Gibraltar was reluctantly ceded to Great Britain by Spain in the 1713 Treaty of Utrecht ; the British garrison was formally declared a colony in 1830 .
In a referendum held in 1967 , Gibraltarians voted overwhelmingly to remain a British dependency .
The subsequent granting of autonomy in 1969 by the UK led to Spain closing the border and severing all communication links .
A series of talks were held by the UK and Spain between 1997 and 2002 on establishing temporary joint sovereignty over Gibraltar .
In response to these talks , the Gibraltar Government called a referendum in late 2002 in which the majority of citizens voted overwhelmingly against any sharing of sovereignty with Spain .
Since late 2004 , tripartite talks among Spain , the UK , and Gibraltar have been held with the aim of cooperatively resolving problems that affect the local population , and work continues on cooperation agreements in areas such as taxation and financial services ; communications and maritime security ; policy , legal and customs services ; environmental protection ; and education and visa services .
Throughout 2009 , a dispute over Gibraltar 's claim to territorial waters extending out three miles gave rise to periodic non-violent maritime confrontations between Spanish and UK naval patrols .
A new noncolonial constitution came into effect in 2007 , and the European Court of First Instance recognized Gibraltar 's right to regulate its own tax regime in December 2008 , but the UK retains responsibility for defense , foreign relations , internal security , and financial stability .
Chad , part of France 's African holdings until 1960 , endured three decades of civil warfare as well as invasions by Libya before a semblance of peace was finally restored in 1990 .
The government eventually drafted a democratic constitution and held flawed presidential elections in 1996 and 2001 .
In 1998 , a rebellion broke out in northern Chad , which has sporadically flared up despite several peace agreements between the government and the rebels .
In 2005 , new rebel groups emerged in western Sudan and made probing attacks into eastern Chad despite signing peace agreements in December 2006 and October 2007 .
Power remains in the hands of an ethnic minority .
In June 2005 , President Idriss DEBY held a referendum successfully removing constitutional term limits and won another controversial election in 2006 .
Sporadic rebel campaigns continued throughout 2006 and 2007 .
The capital experienced a significant rebel threat in early 2008 .
Ahmad Shah DURRANI unified the Pashtun tribes and founded Afghanistan in 1747 .
The country served as a buffer between the British and Russian Empires until it won independence from notional British control in 1919 .
A brief experiment in democracy ended in a 1973 coup and a 1978 Communist counter-coup .
The Soviet Union invaded in 1979 to support the tottering Afghan Communist regime , touching off a long and destructive war .
The USSR withdrew in 1989 under relentless pressure by internationally supported anti-Communist mujahedin rebels .
A series of subsequent civil wars saw Kabul finally fall in 1996 to the Taliban , a hardline Pakistani-sponsored movement that emerged in 1994 to end the country 's civil war and anarchy .
Following the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks in New York City and Washington , D.C. , a US , Allied , and anti-Taliban Northern Alliance military action toppled the Taliban for sheltering Osama BIN LADIN .
The UN-sponsored Bonn Conference in 2001 established a process for political reconstruction that included the adoption of a new constitution , a presidential election in 2004 , and National Assembly elections in 2005 .
In December 2004 , Hamid KARZAI became the first democratically elected president of Afghanistan and the National Assembly was inaugurated the following December .
KARZAI was re-elected in August 2009 for a second term .
Despite gains toward building a stable central government , a resurgent Taliban and continuing provincial instability - particularly in the south and the east - remain serious challenges for the Afghan Government .
The Pacific coast of Nicaragua was settled as a Spanish colony from Panama in the early 16th century .
Independence from Spain was declared in 1821 and the country became an independent republic in 1838 .
Britain occupied the Caribbean Coast in the first half of the 19th century , but gradually ceded control of the region in subsequent decades .
Violent opposition to governmental manipulation and corruption spread to all classes by 1978 and resulted in a short-lived civil war that brought the Marxist Sandinista guerrillas to power in 1979 .
Nicaraguan aid to leftist rebels in El Salvador caused the US to sponsor anti-Sandinista contra guerrillas through much of the 1980s .
After losing free and fair elections in 1990 , 1996 , and 2001 , former Sandinista President Daniel ORTEGA Saavedra was elected president in 2006 .
The 2008 municipal elections were marred by widespread irregularities .
Nicaragua 's infrastructure and economy - hard hit by the earlier civil war and by Hurricane Mitch in 1998 - are slowly being rebuilt , but democratic institutions have been weakened under the ORTEGA administration .
With a well-developed infrastructure , a free-enterprise economy , generally pro-investment policies , and strong export industries , Thailand enjoyed solid growth from 2000 to 2007 - averaging more than 4 % per year - as it recovered from the Asian financial crisis of 1997 - 98 .
Thai exports - mostly machinery and electronic components , agricultural commodities , and jewelry - continue to drive the economy , accounting for more than half of GDP .
The global financial crisis of 2008 - 9 severely cut Thailand 's exports , with most sectors experiencing double-digit drops .
In 2009 , the economy contracted 2.2 % .
In 2010 , Thailand 's economy expanded 7.6 % , its fastest pace since 1995 , as exports rebounded from their depressed 2009 level .
Antigovernment protests during March-May and the country 's polarized political situation had - at most - a temporary impact on business and consumer confidence .
Although tourism was hit hard during the protests , its quick recovery helped boost consumer confidence to new highs .
Moreover , business and investor sentiment remained buoyant as Thailand 's stock market grew almost 5 % during the three-month period .
The economy probably will continue to experience high grow well into 2011 .
A FARMER , who bore a grudge against a Fox for robbing his poultry yard , caught him at last , and being determined to take an ample revenge , tied some rope well soaked in oil to his tail , and set it on fire .
The Fox by a strange fatality rushed to the fields of the Farmer who had captured him .
It was the time of the wheat harvest ; but the Farmer reaped nothing that year and returned home grieving sorely .
A LION and a Bear seized a Kid at the same moment , and fought fiercely for its possession .
When they had fearfully lacerated each other and were faint from the long combat , they lay down exhausted with fatigue .
A Fox , who had gone round them at a distance several times , saw them both stretched on the ground with the Kid lying untouched in the middle .
He ran in between them , and seizing the Kid scampered off as fast as he could .
The Lion and the Bear saw him , but not being able to get up , said , " Woe be to us , that we should have fought and belabored ourselves only to serve the turn of a Fox . "
It sometimes happens that one man has all the toil , and another all the profit .
A CARTER was driving a waggon loaded with a merchant 's goods , when the wheels stuck in a rut .
Thereupon he began to pray to Hercules , without other exertion .
" Indolent fellow ! " said Hercules ; " you ask me to help you , but will not help yourself . "
So the Carter helped himself to so many of the most valuable goods that the horses easily ran away with the remainder .
These two tuba players walk past a bar ...
Well , it could happen !
King Juan Carlos hired a public relations firmn to find out how the Spanish people felt about him .
They informed him that he had 75 % approval in the mountainous areas but only 50 % approval elsewhere The conclusion was that the reign in Spain was shaky on the plain .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says five American and one Afghan soldiers were injured in two incidents when their helicopters were forced to make emergency landings after being hit by ground fire .
The military says the attacks on the ( CH-47 ) Chinook helicopters occurred Sunday in the southern provinces of Kandahar and Uruzgan - both hotbeds of Taleban insurgents and their allies .
In a separate attack Sunday , three American soldiers were wounded in a roadside bomb blast in Zabul - also in southern Afghanistan .
The military says the wounded soldiers are in stable condition .
In another incident , a suicide attacker killed a civilian when he blew himself up near a coalition troop convoy in Kandahar .
Almost 3,000 workers at an electronics plant in northern China were off the job for a third day Thursday because of a strike demanding better pay and working conditions .
The stoppage at the Japanese-owned Tianjin Mitsumi Electric Company is the latest in a growing number of strikes by Chinese workers demanding salaries in line with those paid in other countries .
Most have been aimed at foreign-owned companies .
The Associated Press reports security forces were posted around the factory , but have not taken action against about 100 workers gathered outside the factory .
However foreign reporters were detained and removed from the area .
A worker at the plant told China 's state-run Xinhua news agency he works six days a week with two hours of overtime every day to earn $ 220 a month .
Afghans continued protests Saturday against a U.S. pastor 's threat to burn copies of the Quran .
The Associated Press reports protesters have set shops and police checkpoints on fire in eastern Logar province 's capital , Puli Alam .
And Reuters news agency says several thousand people gathered in three district in northeastern Badakhshan province .
On Friday , thousands of Afghans across the country demonstrated their outrage at the preacher 's insistence on burning Islam 's holy book .
At least eight people were wounded in the protests .
The preacher has since called off Saturday 's planned burning .
The obscure Florida pastor , Reverend Terry Jones , arrived in New York late Friday .
His plans have created an international firestorm and prompted leading political and religious figures to issue statements condemning the plans .
Top U.S. officials had warned the pastor that the Quran burning could provoke Islamist violence and put U.S. soldiers ' lives in danger .
The U.S. monthly trade deficit rose to an all-time high in November as oil imports soared .
The gap between what Americans bought abroad and the goods and services they sold to foreign nations widened to a record $ 68.9 billion .
The surge surprised economists who expected declining oil prices to ease the trade deficit .
Wednesday 's report from the U.S. Commerce Department says trade deficits with OPEC , China , Canada , the European Union , and Mexico were at record levels .
Some analysts say November 's huge trade deficit puts the United States on track to exceed last year 's record annual trade deficit of nearly $ 618 billion .
France , Germany and Britain have warned Iran it will answer to the United Nations Security Council if it resumes uranium enrichment activities that the United States says could produce fuel for nuclear bombs .
In a letter , foreign ministers from the three countries told top Iranian negotiator Hassan Rowhani that they will break off months of bilateral talks aimed at ending disputes over the nature of Iran 's nuclear ambitions .
The matter would then be referred to the Security Council for possible sanctions .
In Tehran , Mr. Rowhani is quoted as saying Iran will no longer respect the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty if it is denied the right to develop a full civilian nuclear energy program .
The United States accuses Iran of clandestine efforts to develop nuclear weapons .
Tehran has repeatedly denied the charge .
Ukraine 's parliament has set the inauguration of President-elect Viktor Yushchenko for Sunday .
Thursday 's decision came hours after the Supreme Court threw out the final legal appeal by former Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych , who alleged that last month 's election was fraudulent .
Chief Justice Anatoly Varema calls the court 's decision final .
Mr. Yanukovych has finally conceded defeat , telling Ukrainian television Thursday that the election campaign is over .
He called on supporters to end their protests and begin what he calls a new political struggle .
But his legal team plans to appeal the election to the European Court of Human Rights .
Meanwhile , Russian President Vladimir Putin , who backed Mr. Yanukovych , congratulated Mr. Yushchenko .
U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell will travel to Kiev for Sunday 's inauguration .
NATO is sending Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer .
Britney Spears is officially divorced - but at a stiff price .
The Star Magazine reports the singer 's divorce from Kevin Federline will cost her $ 13 million , including $ 25,000 a month in child support for each of the couple 's two sons until they reach 18 .
He also gets custody of the boys four days a week .
Kevin Federline gets to keep all the gifts Britney Spears bought him during their two-year marriage - but is forbidden from writing a tell-all book about their union .
He reportedly encouraged Britney to remain in a treatment center by telling her they would reconcile after she got out .
The U.S. Gulf Coast is bracing for Hurricane Katrina as it strengthens after pummeling southeastern Florida with strong winds and sheets of rain .
At least seven people have been killed in the storm , which came ashore Thursday , dumping several centimeters of rain in its path and triggering widespread flooding .
Hundreds of thousands of homes and businesses lost power and an overpass under construction in the Miami area collapsed onto a main east-west highway .
Katrina was briefly downgraded to a tropical storm as it crossed land , but it has turned into a stronger hurricane while moving over the warm Gulf waters .
At last report , the 11th named storm of this year 's Atlantic hurricane season was 97 kilometers west-northwest of Key West .
Katrina was moving slowly in a west-northwesterly direction at 13 kilometers per hour .
A court hearing began in South Africa Friday , pitting an influential AIDS lobby group against a doctor who claims his vitamin therapies are more effective against AIDS than anti-retroviral drugs .
Treatment Action Campaign , or TAC , is asking the Cape Town court to order Dr. Matthias Rath to stop making defamatory comments about the lobby group .
The German-born doctor calls TAC a front for drug companies .
He also claims AIDS drugs are toxic , saying the deadly disease can be treated successfully with nutrients .
The World Health Organization has condemned Dr. Rath , saying his claims are unhelpful and dangerous .
TAC successfully pressured the South African government to roll out a comprehensive program - including free drugs - to treat AIDS patients .
Pakistani authorities have released an alleged al-Qaida militant accused of involvement in a bomb attack against former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto last year .
A court in the city of Karachi ordered prison officials to release Qari Saifullah Akhtar Wednesday for lack of evidence .
But , the court also ruled that Akhtar must make himself available for further questioning if sufficient evidence is found .
Ms. Bhutto accused Akhtar of plotting the double suicide bombing of her homecoming parade in Karachi last October that killed about 140 people .
She made the accusation in a book written before her assassination in a December gun and bomb attack in Rawalpindi .
Pakistani authorities had detained Akhtar last month .
They also accuse him of attending al-Qaida training camps in Afghanistan before the fall of the Taliban in 2001 .
ome information for this report was provided by AFP .
Suspected Taleban rebels have ambushed a convoy carrying the governor of Afghanistan 's Ghazni province .
Governor Sher Alam was not harmed in the attack Saturday , but the resulting shootout left at least two attackers dead .
In a separate incident Saturday , Taleban fighters are also being blamed for killing the former governor of Ghazni province , Taj Mohammed Qari Baba .
Three others , including Baba 's bodyguard , were killed in the attack .
Meanwhile , officials say a roadside bomb attack has killed at least nine police officers .
Authorities say the blast occurred Friday as police were transporting the bodies of four citizens of Macedonia kidnapped in the region a week ago by suspected Taleban rebels .
The four Macedonians , along with four Afghans who were abducted and later released , worked for a company that provided sanitation services at U.S. and Afghan military bases .
Economic reports paint a mixed picture of the U.S. economy , with manufacturing rising and construction dropping .
Monday 's report from the Institute for Supply Management says an index of manufacturing rose 2.3 percentage points in December .
Factories are apparently boosting production to meet growing demand from government stimulus programs .
Demand is also helped by businesses that are rebuilding inventories that were drastically cut during the worst of the economic crisis .
A separate government report shows a very different trend .
The latest figures from the U.S. Commerce Department show construction falling to the lowest level in six years .
November 's data show a 0.6 percent decline for the month , which is the seventh drop in as many months .
India 's cricket team has scored 216-3 in response to Australia 's first innings total of 463 on the second day of the second test at the Sydney Cricket Ground .
V.V.S. Laxman and Rahul Dravid led the Indian counterattack with Laxman scoring his 18th test century with 109 runs .
Dravid added 53 for India , which lost the first test in Melbourne by 337 runs .
Australian Bowlers Mitchell Johnson and Brad Hogg took one wicket each for Australia .
Earlier , Andrew Symonds scored 162 not out for the Aussies and revived the home side 's hopes of winning its 16th test match in a row .
The third test of the four-match series starts in Perth January 16th .
The two sides will also play in a triangular series that features Sri Lanka beginning February third in Brisbane .
Yukos , the huge Russian oil company , says Russian authorities have again raided its Moscow offices .
A company spokeswoman tells VOA , officials Thursday searched an area where financial documents are stored .
The action comes as lawyers for Yukos are asking a U.S. court in Houston , Texas for an order blocking the planned auction of a major part of the company on Sunday .
The company says it would be seriously hurt by the forced sale of its main oil-producing subsidiary , Yuganskeneftegaz .
Russian officials ordered the auction to raise money to pay billions of dollars in back taxes .
Critics of Russia 's government say the tax dispute is retaliation for financial support the company 's chairman Mikhail Khodorkovsky gave to political opponents of Russian President Vladimir Putin .
The Iranian government says it has the right to decide which international inspectors will be allowed to monitor its nuclear facilities .
A spokesman for Iran 's Foreign Ministry said Tehran could reject the inspectors on the basis of their previous activities .
The official , Ramin Mahmanparast , was echoing comments by the nation 's nuclear chief Ali Akbar Salehi , who noted Iran had accepted alternate inspectors provided by the International Atomic Energy Agency .
Salehi was quoted as saying that two inspectors rejected by Iran had filed FALSE reports on Iran 's nuclear program .
A report released Monday by the IAEA said Iran 's objections to certain inspectors are complicating efforts to investigate its nuclear program .
The program is at the core of an international dispute over whether the activities have a military component .
An uneasy calm has settled over Nigeria , where more than 120 people have been killed in Muslim-Christian violence since Saturday .
Christian youths burned the corpses of Muslims Thursday in Onitsha , the site of riots on Tuesday and Wednesday .
Christian mobs in the city killed at least 80 people , mostly Muslims , in reprisal for rioting against Christians in Nigeria 's largely Muslim north .
More than 40 people , mainly Christians , died in riots on Saturday and Sunday .
Nigerian police have stepped up security across the country before Friday Muslim prayers , hoping to prevent further violence .
The sectarian riots began last Saturday in the northern city of Maiduguri during Muslim protests against Danish cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad .
Sudan 's Foreign Ministry says six Sudanese , including a diplomat , have been kidnapped in Iraq .
The ministry says the victims were seized in Baghdad after attending prayers Friday .
The abducted diplomat was identified as the second secretary at Sudan 's mission in Baghdad .
Meanwhile , thousands of Sunni Arabs demonstrated in Baghdad , Tikrit and Mosul to protest what they said were flawed December 15 parliamentary elections .
Preliminary results show a strong lead for the main Shi'ite coalition .
Elsewhere , insurgents ambushed an Iraqi checkpoint in Adhaim , about 70 kilometers north of Baghdad , killing eight Iraqi soldiers and wounding 17 .
A suicide bomber also killed at least three people at a Shi'ite mosque in Balad Ruz , about 75 kilometers northeast of Baghdad .
The U.S. military also says two U.S. soldiers were killed Friday when their vehicle struck a roadside bomb in Baghdad .
Iraqi authorities say gunmen have killed the chief of police in a town northeast of Baghdad .
Police say Colonel Hatem Rashid Mohammad was killed Friday , along with an aide during an ambush in Balad Ruz , 50 kilometers northeast of the capital .
Insurgents have been increasingly attacking Iraqi policemen and soldiers , who have taken a larger role in trying to stabilize the country in recent months .
Thursday , U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Detainee Affairs Matthew Waxman said U.S. forces in Iraq are holding a senior aide to terrorist mastermind Abu Musab al-Zarqawi .
Mr. Waxman said the man was arrested in Iraq in late 2004 and that he holds joint U.S. and Jordanian citizenship .
He said the suspect acted as an emissary between terror groups in Iraq and al-Zarqawi .
Final results from Iraq 's provincial elections show Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki 's allies have strengthened their standing across the country .
Candidates backed by the moderate Shi'ite prime minister dominated in the capital , Baghdad , and were victorious over other more sectarian Shi'ite rivals across southern Iraq .
The results released Thursday also showed that Sunni Arab tribal leaders who rose up against insurgents won the most seats in the western province of Anbar .
The tribal chiefs won eight out of 29 provincial council seats in last month 's elections .
The vote in 14 of Iraq 's 18 provinces was seen as a referendum on Mr. Maliki 's leadership ahead of national parliamentary elections later this year .
Polling is to take place later in the three Kurdish provinces of northern Iraq , as well as the disputed oil-rich region of Kirkuk .
Indonesian health officials say former vice president Sudharmono has died at the age of 78 .
Officials say Sudharmono died Wednesday in a Jakarta hospital .
He had served as former president Suharto 's fourth vice president , from 1988 to 1993 .
Sudharmono was a retired army lieutenant general and later a chairman of the powerful Golkar party who aided in intelligence operations to help Suharto stamp out the communist party .
Sudharmono is survived by his wife and three children .
Bayelsa State government officials in Nigeria say the mother of a state legislator has been kidnapped in the country 's southern Niger Delta .
Jonah Okah , A spokesman for the Bayelsa state parliament says gunmen took the woman from her home Monday night in Brass , a remote part of the oil-producing delta region .
The spokesman also says the 11-year-old son of another local legislator was released by kidnappers Tuesday .
It is not clear whether ransom money was paid for the child 's release .
The mother of the speaker of the Bayelsa state parliament was also abducted and released earlier this month .
Kidnappings for ransom are frequent in Nigeria 's delta region .
Armed gangs have mostly abducted foreign oil industry workers , but recently began including relatives of local officials they think can afford to pay for their release .
Voters in Nepal have begun casting ballots in the country 's first nationwide municipal elections in seven years .
Security forces have been authorized to shoot anyone caught disrupting the controversial elections .
Heavily guarded polling stations opened early Wednesday , but so far only a handful of the country 's nearly two-million registered voters have turned out to vote .
Elections are taking place in only 36 of Nepal 's municipalities .
The remaining 22 either do not have anyone running , or candidates are running unopposed .
Nepal 's government says the polls are a step toward democracy .
But opposition parties and communist rebels call the elections a sham aimed at legitimizing King Gyanendra 's seizure of absolute power a year ago .
Rebels have threatened to harm anyone who participates in the vote .
U.S. stock market indexes posted strong gains in Tuesday 's afternoon trading .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose three percent , the S & P 500 advanced 3.6 percent , and the NASDAQ moved up 3.3 percent .
European stock markets were higher at the close of trading .
London 's Financial Times 100 index gained 1.4 percent to finish at 4,123 .
The CAC-40 in Paris rose 2.4 percent to close at 3,153 , and the DAX in Frankfurt moved up 3.1 percent to hit 4,532 .
In Asia , Tokyo 's Nikkei index plunged 6.4 percent to finish the day at 7,864 .
In Hong Kong , the Hang Seng dropped five percent to end at 13,406 .
The price of gold rose more than $ 11 to trade at $ 780.47 an ounce .
The dollar was higher against the yen but lost value compared to the euro .
Venezuela 's oil minister says his country will end talks with foreign oil companies concerning the country 's takeover of oil projects financed by the private companies .
Rafael Ramirez said Monday that the negotiations have become impossible .
Venezuela has said it would take majority control of oil projects along the Orinoco River , where the private companies have invested billions of dollars .
Ramirez also says a plan by President Hugo Chavez to nationalize Venezuela 's electricity sector would mean the complete takeover of the country 's largest power company , Electricidad de Caracas .
EDC is owned by a U.S. company , AES .
Neither AES nor the foreign oil companies have responded to Ramirez 's statements .
U.S. officials have said nationalizations have a long history of failure and seldom benefit the people they are meant to serve .
The Afghan president 's office has responded to criticism by Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf , insisting its intelligence on terrorists hiding in Pakistan is correct .
President Hamid Karzai 's office Tuesday defended intelligence it says shows terrorists are free to move in Pakistan .
The statement was a response to Mr. Musharraf 's accusation that Afghanistan is " bad-mouthing " his country and casting doubt on Islamabad 's commitment to fighting terrorism .
Mr. Musharraf said Monday , such criticism of Pakistan is " a deliberate , articulated conspiracy . "
He contends Afghan intelligence is outdated and incorrect .
Afghanistan 's and Pakistan 's comments , coming on the heels of President Bush 's visit to South Asia last week , point to a new low in relations between the neighboring states , at a time when Afghanistan is facing a sharp rise in attacks by insurgents .
Latin America enjoyed robust economic growth last year , but a new report by the Inter-American Development Bank warns that several factors could reverse that trend in 2005 .
The IADB says Latin American nations ' overall economic growth was 5.5 percent in 2004 , thanks to China 's increasing demand for raw materials , including steel .
However , Beijing has taken several steps to slow its economy , which grew to by 9.5 percent last year , which the bank says will have an immediate effect on global trade and the price of commodities .
In addition to a possible economic slowdown by China , the Inter-American Development Bank says , rising U.S. interest rates and a falling dollar could affect Latin America , where many countries already have massive levels of public debt .
Billionaire investor says the U.S. economy could fall into recession in 2007 .
He spoke in Singapore on Monday , and said the U.S. central bank could spark the downturn by raising interest rates too high , crimping the U.S. housing market .
High U.S. housing prices are a key reason that rising energy prices did not derail economic growth last year .
The U.S. Federal Reserve has been boosting interest rates steadily in a bid to fend off inflation , but Soros expects that campaign to end after two more quarter-point rate hikes ( at 4.75 percent ) .
The U.S. economy is the world 's largest , and Soros says a U.S. recession could slow global economic growth .
He also said future global growth could come from Asia , and urged Asian governments to encourage domestic demand to reduce their dependence on exports .
World oil prices hit new record highs Wednesday , as experts worried about production problems that could disrupt output .
Those concerns include refinery breakdowns and a worse-than-usual hurricane season that could threaten vital offshore wells .
The production problems come as traders say there is robust demand for oil from growing economies .
In New York , the price of crude oil for September delivery went as high as $ 62.47 a barrel .
London 's benchmark Brent contract also hit a new record high of $ 61.25 .
Japan 's Prince Tomohito of Mikasa says there is no need for the government to make an immediate decision on allowing women to succeed to the throne .
He told Kyodo news agency that a government panel should reconsider its proposal to allow the first-born child of either sex to ascend to the Chrysanthemum throne .
Tomohito is a cousin of Emperor Akihito and fifth in the line of succession .
He has been an outspoken critic against changing Japan 's laws for gaining the throne .
Only males who have emperors on their father 's side can succeed to the throne .
However , Japan is facing a succession crisis due to a lack of a male heirs since the 1960s .
Late last year , Tomohito suggested bringing back concubines to produce male heir before allowing a woman to head the ancient monarchy .
Ukraine 's parliament has overwhelmingly confirmed Yulia Tymoshenko as the country 's prime minister .
The vote was 373 in favor out of the 450-member chamber .
Earlier , President Viktor Yushchenko told lawmakers in Kiev Ms. Tymoshenko had earned his and the nation 's trust .
Calling her his political partner , Mr. Yushchenko said she can be trusted to organize a new government .
Ukraine 's parliament Tuesday postponed a hearing on Ms. Tymoshenko 's confirmation as her broad coalition was reported to be finalizing the makeup of a new cabinet .
Meanwhile , President Yushchenko is reported Friday to have dismissed three deputy prime ministers , 15 cabinet ministers and several other officials in a move political observers say was expected as the new government is being formed .
A moderate earthquake struck central Mexico Friday , forcing residents and office workers to evacuate buildings in Mexico City .
Officials say no major injuries or damages were immediately reported .
The U.S. Geological Survey estimates the earthquake 's magnitude at 6 .
An aftershock that measured 5.5 hit a few hours later .
The center says the earthquake , which hit Friday morning local time , was centered in the southwestern state of Michoacan , about 200 kilometers southwest of Mexico City .
In 1985 , a 7.8 magnitude earthquake in Mexico City killed more than 10,000 people .
Voters in Burundi are casting ballots in a parliamentary election the ruling party is almost certain to win , amid a boycott by an opposition coalition .
The opposition also boycotted last month 's presidential election .
Unopposed , President Pierre Nkurunziza was re-elected .
The opposition decided to boycott both votes after accusing the president of using fraud to win local elections in May .
International observers said there was no evidence of tampering .
Security has also been a concern during this election season .
Burundi has been on alert since Somali insurgents threatened to attack the country for its role in the peacekeeping mission in Somalia .
Somali Islamist rebel group al-Shabab claimed responsibility for bombings in Uganda earlier this month that killed 76 people .
It said the attacks were revenge for Ugandan participation in the peacekeeping force .
U.S. senators say security at the country 's borders and ports must be strengthened after a federal investigation revealed critical gaps at two border checkpoints .
The Senate 's Homeland Security Subcommittee Tuesday is hearing testimony from security officials on the need to speed up improvements in preventing dangerous materials from entering the country .
A report by Congress 's investigative department says federal investigators tested security at U.S. checkpoints in December and successfully smuggled in enough radioactive material to produce two so-called " dirty bombs . "
The report says border guards had detected the radioactive material using newly installed equipment , but failed to recognize that investigators used counterfeit documents to transport the material .
A Republican senator says U.S. cargo security measures now suffer from " a massive blind spot . "
Joseph Wilson , the husband of Valerie Plame , the Central Intelligence Agency operative exposed by a newspaper article in 2003 , says his wife received specific threats after her identity was revealed .
Mr. Wilson spoke to the CBS television program " 60 Minutes , " which released excerpts of his interview in advance of Sunday evening 's broadcast .
According to CBS , Mr. Wilson said he could not go into detail about the threats .
He told the network that he and his wife have discussed her security with several agencies .
Mr. Wilson said that before Ms. Plame 's identity was published by a newspaper columnist , very few people outside the intelligence community knew she worked for the C.I.A .
Mr. Wilson has said his wife was exposed to discredit him after he criticized the Bush administration 's rationale for the war in Iraq .
U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld is to travel to India this week to discuss arms sales to New Delhi and Pakistan .
Mr. Rumsfeld is expected to discuss US-India relations when he meets with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Thursday in New Delhi .
India wants to buy the Patriot missile system , which can defend against ballistic and cruise missiles , and aircraft .
India also is expected to raise its concern over Pakistan 's request to buy up to 25 F-16 fighter jets from the United States .
Indian and Pakistani media say the prospect of American arms sales has stirred up opposition in both South Asian countries .
The two nuclear-armed rivals , which have fought three wars in the past five decades , are currently in peace talks over all outstanding issues .
The U.S. ambassador to Nepal has urged King Gyanendra to reconcile with the nation 's political parties , warning that Nepal could " slide toward confrontation , confusion and chaos . "
Speaking in Kathmandu late Tuesday , Ambassador James Moriarty said the royal palace should reach out to political parties " with sincere proposals " that reflect a common agenda of multi-party democracy and constitutional monarchy .
Nepal 's king seized absolute power on February 1 , saying the move was necessary to end government corruption and quell the nine-year-old Maoist insurgency .
Meanwhile , Nepal 's army troops are continuing a search for soldiers missing since Sunday 's fierce clash with the rebels in a remote western district .
Tuesday , the army said it found the bodies of 40 soldiers and 76 were still missing .
The rebels say they have killed 159 troops and captured another 50 .
The army rejects the claim .
The press freedom organization Reporters Without Borders says it is concerned by what it calls the growing repression of journalists and cyber-dissidents in Iran .
In a report issued Sunday , the RSF ( Reporters Sans Frontieres ) announced the detention of five more journalists .
RSF says 41 journalists are currently imprisoned in Iran a month after the country 's contested election .
RSF says Iran is currently the world 's biggest prison for journalists , and is becoming the world 's most dangerous place for them to operate .
RSF says the recently-detained journalists include photographers Majid Saidi and Tohid Bighi , blogger Henghameh Shahidi , and journalists Somaieh Nosrati and Said Matinpour .
According to RSF , four of the five are being held in secret locations with no information about their condition being released to their families or legal representatives .
Ukraine 's Supreme Court has rejected at least two complaints of election fraud filed by Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych .
The court was expected to rule Thursday on a total of four complaints by Mr. Yanukovych , who lost Sunday 's presidential runoff vote .
Mr. Yanukovych alleges there were thousands of election violations and is refusing to concede defeat to his rival , opposition leader Viktor Yushchenko .
Observers say the appeals are unlikely to change the election results because Mr. Yanukovych lacks popular support and because the number of irregularities was not enough to narrow the gap between the two candidates .
Official results released Tuesday show Mr. Yushchenko won the runoff with 52 percent of the vote , to 44 percent for the prime minister .
Brazil 's state-run energy company , Petrobras , has awarded a major contract to a Chinese firm to build a gas pipeline between southeast and northeast Brazil .
Petrobras signed the $ 239-million deal with China 's state-run oil company , Sinopec , on Monday .
Under the contract , Sinopec will build a 300-kilometer stretch of pipeline in southeastern Brazil .
It will connect the gas fields in Rio de Janeiro state to the city of Vitoria ( in Espirito Santo state ) , farther north .
The pipeline will have a daily capacity of 20 million cubic meters of gas .
Brazil plans to extend the pipeline from Vitoria to the town of Catu , in northeastern state of Bahia , covering a total distance of 1,300 kilometers .
The entire project , known as Gasene , is aimed at improving gas distribution in northeastern Brazil .
A new public opinion poll shows that Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva 's popularity has fallen but remains strong despite a bribes-for-votes scandal surrounding his government .
The Datafolha poll shows the number of people who believe the president is honest has fallen 11 percentage points in little more than a month to 62 percent .
Mr. da Silva himself has not been accused of wrongdoing .
The survey also says the government 's approval rating remains nearly unchanged , dropping one percentage point to 35 percent .
The Datafolha company polled more than 2,000 Brazilians for the survey .
The scandal erupted when the ruling Workers Party was accused of paying lawmakers $ 12,000 a month to win their support .
The party denies the allegations , which caused some government officials to step down .
Despite the scandal , surveys have shown that Mr. da Silva is still the favorite to win the 2006 presidential election .
One of the defendants on trial for conspiracy in the assassination of reformist Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic has implicated the leader 's former deputy in the plot .
Dejan " Bugsy " Milenkovic told a Belgrade court Thursday that Nebojsa Covic was aware of the conspiracy .
He said Mr. Djindjic 's sworn enemy , ultranationalist leader Vojislav Seselj , also was aware of the plot .
Seselj is on trial for war crimes in the Hague .
Covic has denied any involvement .
Officials of Seselj 's Radical Party dismissed the allegations against him .
Milenkovic is one of 13 suspects on trial for their roles in the assassination of Mr. Djindjic outside government offices in Belgrade in 2003 .
Mr. Djindjic was one of the leaders of the pro-democracy movement that toppled former Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic in 2000 .
He was also instrumental in extraditing the former leader to the United Nations war crimes tribunal in The Hague .
Iraqi police say a suicide bomber blew up his explosives filled car near the Oil Ministry in Baghdad , killing at least nine people and wounding eight others .
Another suicide car bomb attack occurred in an eastern part of the capital Thursday .
Police said there were casualties , but no confirmed figure was immediately available .
The attacks come a day after 25 people were killed and 90 others wounded in a suicide attack at a Shi'ite mosque in the town of Hilla .
The bomber struck as the faithful gathered at the mosque to pray before breaking fast Wednesday - the first day of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan .
Meanwhile , Iraqi President Jalal Talabani met with British Prime Minister Tony Blair in London Thursday , to discuss preparations for the October 15 national referendum on Iraq 's new constitution .
Russia 's military chief , General Yuri Baluyevsky , has reiterated international calls that North Korea must remain free of nuclear weapons .
Mr. Baluyevsky spoke Monday during a meeting in Moscow with his Japanese counterpart , visiting Military Chief General Hajime Massaki .
He said it is the international community 's duty to prevent any nuclear tests on the Korean peninsula .
On Sunday , North Korea confirmed a meeting with U.S. officials held earlier this month .
The statement came days after U.S. officials announced they held a rare meeting with North Korean authorities at United Nations headquarters in New York , to urge Pyongyang to return to talks on ending its nuclear weapons program .
South Korea , China , Russia and Japan have also been calling on North Korea to re-join the six-nation talks .
Iraq 's health minister says a girl who died earlier this month in northern Iraq was a victim of the deadly H5N1 strain of the bird flu - the first known case of the disease in the country .
Abdel Mutalib Mohammed told reporters Monday that new tests of the victim 's blood samples confirmed the Kurdish teenager had contracted the deadly strain .
Nearly two weeks ago , the World Health Organization said its tests for the virus were negative .
The girl died January 17th in the Kurdish city of Sulaymaniya , near the border with Turkey and Iran .
The death triggered concerns that infected birds from Turkey had begun spreading the virus in Iraq .
Tens of thousands of Georgian opposition demonstrators have marched through the Georgian capital to protest final parliamentary election results they say unfairly favored the ruling party .
Protesters marched Monday in Tbilisi , shortly after a military parade marking Georgia 's Independence Day .
Final results from the May 21 polls show President Mikhail Saakashvili 's United National Movement party winning 120 of 150 parliamentary seats .
Last week , opposition leader Levan Gachechiladze said his United Opposition Council will not take its 16 seats in the legislature to protest election results .
Monday he said his supporters will try to prevent the new parliament from convening , by force if necessary .
Observers from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe noted a number of problems , including pre-election intimidation of candidates and procedural shortcomings in the vote count .
However , they stopped short of rejecting the poll results .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says a bomb explosion has killed four American service members .
The troops were on patrol in central Uruzgan province Monday , when their vehicle struck the explosive device .
Meanwhile , in Kunar province bordering Pakistan , an Afghan soldier was killed and five others wounded when their vehicle hit a land mine .
Late Sunday , in southern Helmand province , Taleban insurgents ambushed an Afghan militia unit , killing two men and leaving six missing .
A purported spokesman for the Taleban said the missing militiamen were killed , but Afghan authorities confirm only two deaths .
In another violence late Sunday , on a highway between Kandahar and Herat , suspected Taleban set fire to a tanker supplying fuel to coalition forces .
A congressman from South Carolina has urged his colleagues and President Bush to provide better equipment to troops in Iraq .
Representative Jim Clyburn said in the Democratic party 's weekly radio address that U.S. soldiers should never lack proper equipment nor accurate intelligence .
Mr. Clyburn also said he opposed attempts to invest Social Security on the stock market , calling proposed plans a gamble that could jeopardize benefits for children .
He also called for expanding health insurance coverage and making college education more affordable .
Ambassadors from Spain , Brazil and Venezuela met with a jailed Colombian rebel leader Friday in hopes of securing a cease-fire between his leftist group and Colombia 's government .
The officials traveled to a high-security prison in northwest Colombia to meet with Francisco Galan , a spokesman for the National Liberation Army , or ELN .
They want the group to halt armed operations and enter peace talks with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe 's government .
The ELN and a larger guerrilla group are fighting in a long-running civil war that also involves right-wing paramilitaries .
A Mexican diplomat met with Mr. Galan last year to push for an ELN cease-fire .
Mexico has offered to monitor negotiations between the group and Colombia 's government .
The U.S. military says Afghan police killed a senior militant commander this week in the central province of Ghazni .
A military statement says Abdul Baki was killed Wednesday while police were conducting a search of his residence .
The statement says Baki was the top militant commander in Ghazni 's Andar district , leading a cell of 20 to 30 fighters who coordinated and carried out attacks on troops and government officials .
The statement says Baki attacked Afghan police with small-arms fire as they entered his residence .
The military says Afghan police discovered 50 voter registration cards in the compound .
Authorities believe the cards were taken from villagers in order to prevent them from voting in the planned August presidential elections .
In a separate incident in Ghazni Wednesday , the U.S. military said seven militants were killed during an operation to cut the flow of weapons and fighters into eastern Afghanistan .
The grandmother of U.S. Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama has died from cancer .
Obama announced the death of long-ailing 86-year-old Madelyn Dunham Monday , just one day before voters went to the polls to elect a new president .
The Democratic candidate cried at a rally in North Carolina Monday when talking about the death of his grandmother , who helped raise him .
Obama suspended his campaign for two days last month to visit Dunham in the U.S. Pacific island state of Hawaii .
He said he feared she might not survive to see the historic election .
But although she did not live to see the outcome , Dunham 's vote - an absentee ballot - will count .
Obama faces Republican Senator John McCain in the election Tuesday .
Kenyan authorities report that more than 1,000 teachers have been fired during the past two years for sexually abusing girls .
Education officials said the teachers have been dismissed for impregnating students and committing other sexual offenses .
More of the cases have occurred in public schools .
In addition to being fired from their jobs , some of the teachers have faced criminal proceedings in courts .
Officials said more than 500 teachers have been fired so far this year for committing sexual abuses , and that 600 were dismissed last year .
The U.S. State Department has renewed a warning to U.S. citizens about the dangers of traveling in Colombia .
The department issued an updated travel warning for Colombia Friday .
It said there is potential for violence by terrorists and other criminals in all parts of the South American country .
According to the travel warning , violence has decreased in many urban areas , but small towns and rural areas can still be extremely dangerous .
The State Department also said kidnapping in Colombia has decreased from its peak at the beginning of the decade .
However , it said groups such as the FARC and the ELN , which are classified as terrorist groups by the United States , continue to kidnap civilians for ransom and political bargaining power .
On July 2 , the government of Colombia rescued 15 hostages who had been held for more than five years .
Three of the hostages were Americans .
NATO has detained a former Bosnian Serb policeman suspected of helping war crimes suspects .
NATO said Friday it suspects Dusan Tesic had valuable information about a network officials say has aided indicted war criminals .
But it did not say whom he is suspected of helping .
It was the second time this year NATO has held Mr. Tesic for questioning .
Thursday , the head of European Union peacekeepers in Bosnia said he was closing a bunker believed to have sheltered General Ratko Mladic , the former Bosnian Serb commander .
Meanwhile , the French news agency says Serbia has decided to give the guarantees needed for the release of two war crimes suspects until their trial .
Serb ultra-nationalist Vojislav Seselj and General Dragomir Milosevic have been held in The Hague .
California Republican Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and legislative Democrats have reached what he calls a " historic agreement " that would make the state the first to impose a limit on greenhouse gas emissions .
Governor Schwarzenegger and the lawmakers Wednesday agreed to the deal that would require major energy companies to reduce their carbon emissions within 14 years to 1990 levels .
California is aiming to reduce gas emissions by 25 percent .
The bill still needs the approval of the state 's lawmakers .
It is expected to pass as Democrats currently hold the majority in the state legislature .
Carbon gases trap heat in the atmosphere and scientists believe the gases contribute to global warming .
California is the 12th largest producer of greenhouse gas emissions .
Zimbabwe has suspended exports of ostrich and other poultry after discovering a strain of avian flu that can be lethal to birds , but poses little risk to humans .
Thursday , Zimbabwe 's state-run newspaper The Herald reported that the H5N2 strain of avian flu was detected on two farms in Zimbabwe 's Matabeleland province .
It quotes the state veterinary services director , Dr. Stuart Hargreaves , as saying the virus was confirmed with samples sent to South Africa .
The H5N2 strain of avian flu is not known to pass from birds to humans , unlike the H5N1 strain that has killed nearly 70 people in Southeast Asia since 2003 .
Dr. Hargreaves says all of Zimbabwe 's ostrich farms have been placed under quarantine until a national survey can determine the full extent of virus outbreak .
The U.S. Geological Survey has reported a 7.1 magnitude earthquake some 300 kilometers off the coast of eastern Indonesia .
Geologists say the quake is unlikely to cause a tsunami .
There were no reports of casualties or damage , but the French news agency , AFP , says the Wednesday evening quake sparked panic among residents in several Indonesian provinces .
People in Australia also reported feeling tremors .
Recovery workers in Indonesia are still pulling bodies from the rubble of cities devastated by the December 26 earthquake and tsunami .
Jakarta 's official death count widely varies , but well over 1,00,000 people in Indonesia are believed to have died in the disaster .
China is defending its record of reporting human cases of bird flu following a newspaper report that local health officials may be hiding suspected cases .
China 's health ministry said Saturday that every human case of bird flu in China has been made public once confirmed .
On Thursday , the Asian edition of The Wall Street Journal reported that local health officials in China had failed to report possible human cases of bird flu to the central government .
China announced its first human bird flu case last November .
The country has reported 18 cases , including 12 deaths .
China was widely accused of suppressing information about the 2003 Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome ( SARS ) outbreak .
The outbreak infected more than eight-thousand people and killed nearly 800 , mostly in China , between late 2002 and mid-2003 .
The United Nations has called a special meeting to address the effect of AIDS in southern Africa .
U.N. officials say Wednesday 's meeting in Johannesburg , South Africa will focus on relief efforts and how to get badly-needed resources to the region to battle the growing epidemic .
U.N. special envoy and World Food Program Executive Director James Morris will attend the meeting .
Mr. Morris is currently on an 11-day , four-nation tour of southern Africa to call attention to the region 's problems with drought and AIDS .
U.N. Children 's Fund chair Ann Veneman and U.N. AIDS chief Peter Piot are also expected to attend the meeting .
U.N. figures show southern Africa is one of the world 's hardest-hit regions , with infection rates at nearly 40 percent in Botswana and Swaziland .
South Africa 's infection rate is over 20 percent .
Surrounded by election staff and bodyguards , former commander of Iran 's elite Revolutionary Guard , Mohsen Rezaei , seated , registers as a presidential candidate in Tehran A hard-line conservative candidate says he is withdrawing from Iran 's presidential election .
Mohsen Rezaei Wednesday said he is dropping out to avoid splitting voter support among several conservative candidates .
The announcement comes just two days before Friday 's poll .
His exit leaves three hard-line conservatives in the race , as well as leading reform candidate Mostafa Moin , former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani , and other lesser-known presidential hopefuls .
President Mohammad Khatami is barred from running for a third consecutive term .
Argentina has designated China as a " market economy , " a move that will limit the South American country 's ability to impose anti-dumping sanctions on Chinese exports .
The decision comes after China and Argentina signed accords that could bring more than $ 20 billion in Chinese investment to Argentina over the next 10 years .
Brazil also granted China " market economy " status during a visit by Chinese President Hu Jintao last week .
On Wednesday , Argentina 's agriculture department announced that China will increase imports of Argentine beef , apples and pears over the next few years .
Suspected Islamic militants have attacked security forces on both sides of the Afghanistan - Pakistan border .
Officials in Pakistan 's North Waziristan tribal region say at least eight militants were killed in a gunfight with Pakistani troops Tuesday near the area 's main town of Miran Shah .
The militants ambushed a security convoy and killed one soldier before the troops returned fire .
Earlier , militants shot to death two police officers in Miran Shah .
In neighboring Afghanistan , officials say suspected Taleban militants attacked a police post and a government office near the Pakistani border .
Two police officers were killed .
Authorities say several Taleban were also killed , but it is not clear how many .
Militants linked to the Taleban and al-Qaida have been active along Pakistan 's rugged northwestern border with Afghanistan since a U.S.-led invasion forced the Taleban from power in Afghanistan in late 2001 .
Intelligence officials in Pakistan say a suspected U.S. drone has fired missiles into a Taliban training camp in northwest Pakistan , killing as many as 14 militants .
Officials say the attack took place Tuesday in South Waziristan , along the country 's border with Afghanistan .
The area is a stronghold of Baitullah Mehsud , a top Taliban leader and al-Qaida ally wanted by both Pakistan and the United States .
Mehsud is blamed for scores of attacks against government and civilian targets , and is believed to be a key facilitator for al-Qaida fighters in Pakistan .
Pakistan 's military has been fighting Taliban militants throughout the country 's northwest for more than two months .
Islamabad deployed soldiers there to stop insurgents from fleeing into Pakistan after a major U.S. offensive against the Taliban in Afghanistan 's southern Helmand province , which borders Pakistan .
Palestinian officials said President Mahmoud Abbas will meet with U.S. President Barack Obama in Washington on May 28 .
On Tuesday , the White House announced Mr. Obama has invited the Israeli , Palestinian and Egyptian leaders for talks in the coming weeks .
President Obama has said he expects the Israelis and Palestinians to make " gestures of good faith " in the coming months , in an effort to revive the Middle East peace process .
Mr. Obama said he is a strong supporter of a two-state solution and that perpetuating the decades-long Israeli-Palestinian conflict is not in the interest of the people in the region .
" The Washington Post " on Wednesday quoted top Israeli officials as saying they will not move ahead on the peace talks until they see progress on U.S. efforts to stop Iran 's suspected pursuit of nuclear weapons and limit Tehran 's regional influence .
China says it will buy 150 passenger jets from Airbus in a deal worth almost $ 10 billion .
It is the largest single order Airbus has ever gotten from China .
The agreement was signed Monday in Paris as Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao and his French counterpart , Dominique de Villepin , looked on .
On Sunday , Mr. Wen toured an Airbus manufacturing plant and signed an agreement that may lead to opening an aircraft assembly plant in China .
The planes in the French deal are part of the A-320 family that can carry between 110 and 185 passengers .
China bought 70 jets from the U.S. manufacturer Boeing during President Bush 's trip to Beijing last month .
Haitian President Rene Preval has chosen an official with the Inter-American Development Bank to be the country 's new prime minister .
Reports from Port-au-Prince say President Preval named Ericq Pierre to the post Sunday .
Mr. Pierre 's appointment must be ratified by legislators .
Earlier this month , lawmakers dismissed Prime Minister Jacques Edouard Alexis to quell violent protests over rising food prices in the impoverished Caribbean nation .
The legislators said Mr. Alexis had not done enough to improve the economy or keep soaring food prices under control .
At least six people , including a United Nations peacekeeper , were killed as violence erupted in the capital as well as the city of Les Cayes over the cost of food .
Haiti is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere and has a history of political turmoil .
Ukrainian authorities have imposed a quarantine on districts of Crimea affected by the country 's first outbreak of bird flu .
Officials ordered the slaughter of all poultry in five affected villages after officials confirmed the discovery of dead birds infected with an H5 strain of bird flu .
Authorities are now sending samples to Britain and Italy to determine whether it is the deadly H5N1 strain that has killed nearly 70 people in Asia since 2003 .
In Indonesia , officials said the World Health Organization has confirmed the country 's eighth human death from bird flu .
The officials said Saturday tests conducted at a laboratory in Hong Kong show that a 25-year-old woman who died earlier this week had the H5N1 strain .
Health experts fear the virus could mutate into a form that could be easily transmitted between humans and kill millions of people .
Rwandan President Paul Kagame says he disagrees with a U.N. plan for voluntary disarmament of Rwandan rebels based in the neighboring Democratic Republic of Congo .
Mr. Kagame says asking the ethnic Hutu rebels to voluntarily disarm is not an attainable goal .
He spoke Sunday in Kigali , after conferring with a delegation of U.N. Security Council members who are touring African nations affected by a decade of ethnic strife in the continent 's Great Lakes region .
President Kagame also criticized a recent U.N. decision to bolster its peacekeeping force in Congo by some 6,000 troops .
He said the issue is not increasing the numbers of U.N. troops , but having a clear definition of what the troops will do once they are in place .
U.S. authorities say they have arrested a Mexican national alleged to be the leader of an international drug-trafficking ring .
The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration says authorities arrested Augustin Haro-Rodriguez late Sunday as he tried to cross from Mexico into the southwestern U.S. state of Arizona .
An indictment unsealed after the arrest said Mr. Haro-Rodriguez 's organization smuggled nearly 5,000 kilograms of cocaine into the United States between March , 2004 , and July , 2005 .
Prosecutors say 17 members of the smuggling ring are now in custody .
If convicted , Mr. Haro-Rodriguez faces a possible sentence of life in prison .
Iraqi medical officials say seven people have been killed in fresh clashes between Shi'ite fighters and U.S. forces in Baghdad 's Shi'ite stronghold of Sadr City .
At least 20 other people were wounded in Thursday 's fighting .
U.S. and Iraqi forces have fought fierce battles in Sadr City against Shi'ite militiamen loyal to radical cleric Moqtada al-Sadr for the past month .
At least 30,000 people attended the funeral Saturday of a Pakistani student who died in German police custody .
Twenty-eight-year-old Amir Cheema was arrested in March on charges of attempting to kill the editor of " Die Welt " newspaper for reprinting cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad , first published in Denmark last year .
German police say Cheema hanged himself in his Berlin jail on May 3 .
After Cheema 's body arrived in Lahore from Germany Saturday , a military helicopter flew his coffin to the family home in the village of Saroki .
Officials say the tens of thousands of mourners dispersed peacefully after the funeral .
A new report says the industrial world 's economy is recovering faster than expected , but still faces risks from the debt crisis and the possible overheating of emerging economies .
The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development , which includes the world 's 30 richest nations , says its member economies will grow 2.7 percent this year , which is eight-tenths of a percentage point faster than earlier predictions .
The OECD says the nations that use the euro will expand more slowly ( 1.2 percent ) .
The report 's authors call on European nations to take " bolder " measures to cope with debt and other issues .
The report also says trade flows are rising again and strong growth in China and other emerging nations is helping to pull other countries out of recession .
But the OECD cautions that emerging economies should be careful to avoid the threat of inflation .
The United Nations says it will stop distributing food to Palestinian refugees in the Gaza Strip on Monday , because its vehicles have run out of fuel .
Gaza has been suffering fuel shortages because of Israeli cutbacks in fuel supplies to the territory and a strike by Palestinian fuel distributors .
Israeli authorities closed a border terminal that supplies fuel to Gaza Sunday after it came under mortar attack from Palestinian militants .
The U.N. Relief and Works Agency suspended food distribution to Gaza refugees for four days last month due to the lack of fuel .
It resumed the aid operation last Tuesday .
Israeli authorities have reduced fuel supplies to Gaza to pressure Palestinian militants to stop rocket attacks on southern Israel .
Gaza fuel distributors went on strike to protest the cutbacks .
Chinese officials say a gas explosion that tore through a mine shaft in northern China has killed at least 16 miners and left at least seven others missing .
The official Xinhua news agency says 83 miners were in the mine at the time of Wednesday 's explosion in Shanxi province , but 54 escaped .
Shanxi province is one of China 's biggest coal-producing regions , and mining accidents are common .
China has the most dangerous mining industry in the world .
At least 6,000 Chinese mine workers died on the job last year .
French officials say they want to get in contact with al-Qaida-linked militants in hopes of gaining the release of five French nationals and two Africans kidnapped in Niger last week .
Defense Minister Herve Morin said Thursday that France has every reason to believe the hostages are still alive and that they probably have been taken to northern Mali .
France has flown search missions over the Sahara in hopes of locating the victims .
North Africa 's al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb claimed responsibility for the kidnapping .
The hostages include two employees of the French nuclear energy firm Areva and five with a subsidiary of the French construction company Vinci .
The group has warned the French government against doing what it described as anything " stupid . "
The al-Qaida group has carried out previous kidnappings in the region , including that of a 78-year-old Frenchman who was abducted in Niger in April and later killed .
The U.S. state of Connecticut began issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples Wednesday , making it the second state in the nation to permit gay marriage .
Superior Court judge Jonathan Silbert cleared the way for same-sex unions earlier today , just over a week after Californian voters banned gay marriage in their state .
Justices of the peace in Connecticut began issuing marriage licenses to gay couples immediately following today 's ruling .
The Connecticut Supreme Court ruled last month that same-sex marriage is legal .
Voters last week rejected a ballot initiative to ban same-sex marriages in the state .
Same-sex marriages are also legal in Massachusetts .
Gay marriage was legal in California until last week , when voters approved a measure to ban it .
Similar bans passed last week in Arizona and Florida .
The social-conservative group Family Institute of Connecticut says it will continue to work to ban gay marriage in the state .
The U.S. Congress is considering an additional $ 51.8 billion in emergency aid for Hurricane Katrina relief operations .
After talks with President Bush at the White House Thursday , Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist said Congress is responding aggressively to the disaster , and working to address the short and long-term needs of the victims .
Meanwhile , Senate Democratic Minority Leader Harry Reid accused Republicans of having a flawed plan for recovery , saying most of the money should not go to the Federal Emergency Management Agency .
Opposition Democrats and others have slammed FEMA for what they say was a slow response to the disaster .
The Bush administration says the spending bill is the latest installment in a costly relief effort .
President Bush last week signed an aid package of $ 10.5 billion .
A newspaper reports oil company BP was alerted two years ago to problems that caused a major pipeline shut down in Alaska .
Wednesday 's Financial Times reports that a BP workers ' advocate , Chuck Hamel , wrote about employee concerns in a letter to the chairman of BP 's environment committee , Walter Massey .
The newspaper says the letter raised concerns about corrosion inside the oil pipeline .
Members of the U.S. Congress have called for hearings to investigate BP 's operations at Alaska 's Prudhoe Bay oil field .
Democrats on the House Energy and Commerce Committee have said they will examine the shutdown which cut U.S. oil production by about eight percent .
Hearings are set for next month when Congress returns from a recess .
U.S. government regulators have approved a new partial artificial heart designed to help some patients as they wait for a heart transplant .
The Food and Drug Administration announced its approval of the new device Monday .
The mechanical device is designed to replace the lower part of a diseased heart , and keep patients alive while they await a donor heart for a transplant .
The device is implanted in the patient and connected to an outside power source .
The company that manufactures the new device - Syncardia Systems of Tucson , Arizona , in the southwestern U.S. - says it tested it on 81 patients .
It says it kept 79 of them alive more than two months until donor hearts could be found .
Turkish media report police have detained nearly 30 people suspected of links to the al-Qaida terror network .
Turkey 's state news agency , Anatolia , quoted a local governor as saying 28 suspects were nabbed in simultaneous operations in several districts of Eskisehir province Thursday .
Governor Mehmet Kiliclar said they are now being questioned by police .
In January this year , a suspected al-Qaida terrorist was killed , and three were captured , in a shootout with police during a robbery attempt in Istanbul .
Al-Qaida was blamed for a series of bomb attacks in Istanbul that killed more than 60 people in 2003 .
Afghan authorities have discovered the bodies of two intelligence agents kidnapped by suspected Taleban militants earlier this week .
Officials said Wednesday the men were abducted while on a mission in western Farah province , and their bodies were dumped in the desert .
They said members of the ousted Taleban were likely behind the killings .
Meanwhile , police in central Ghazni province arrested a Taleban commander , Mullah Nazer Shah , after his men set fire to a school .
Officials have blamed Taleban rebels for a series of attacks on educational facilities , including fires at a dozen schools and the killing of several teachers .
In other developments , 150 British troops have arrived in southern Helmand province to form part of a NATO peacekeeping mission .
Britain has pledged 3,300 soldiers to the expanded NATO mission planned for Helmand .
Afghan authorities say suspected Taleban insurgents have attacked a police post in southern part of the country , killing three policemen , while a rocket landed near a top hotel in the capital , Kabul .
The authorities say an unknown number of militants were involved in the assault late Saturday in southern Helmand province that sparked an hour-long exchange of fire .
Security forces launched a manhunt for the attackers .
The Taleban has claimed responsibility for the attack .
Also late Saturday , a rocket was fired at a Kabul hotel where foreigners often stay , but no one was hurt .
Helmand province has seen some of the fiercest fighting in recent months .
Last week , 150 British troops arrived in the province to form part of a NATO peacekeeping mission .
The Obama administration says it plans to approve more than $ 6 billion in arms sales to Taiwan .
The Pentagon 's Defense Cooperation Security Agency says it has notified Congress of possible sales that include 60 Black Hawk helicopters and technical and other related logistics support , worth an estimated $ 3.1 billion .
The agency says the possible sale includes 114 Patriot advanced capability missiles , radar sets and other related equipment and services , worth $ 2.8 billion , two Osprey class mine-hunting ships , and other related support and services , for an estimated cost of $ 105 million .
In the notification released Friday , the agency detailed other military hardware and services worth $ 37 million .
China considers self-ruled Taiwan as its sovereign territory , and usually reacts with anger at official contacts between the island and any nation .
Beijing has threatened to use military force if Taiwan attempts to claim formal independence .
Turkey 's parliament on Tuesday extended the mandate that allows the military to strike at Kurdish separatist rebels based in neighboring northern Iraq .
The move to extend the mandate by one year coincides with Turkish government efforts to garner support for reforms to boost the rights of Kurds and encourage the rebels to lay down their arms .
Turkish warplanes and artillery units have staged a series of attacks on rebel bases in northern Iraq during the past two years , as part of Turkey 's battle against the outlawed Kurdistan Workers ' Party , or PKK .
The PKK has been fighting for Kurdish autonomy in southeastern Turkey for 25 years .
The conflict has killed more than 30,000 people .
Turkey and much of the international community consider the PKK a terrorist group .
The United Nations Security Council is stepping up pressure on Liberia to freeze the assets of accused former president Charles Taylor .
The 15-member Council on Friday approved a resolution on sanctions that aim to eliminate funds for conflicts through the sale of illegally mined diamonds .
Taylor allegedly used profits from so-called " blood diamonds " to fund years of civil war in Liberia and neighboring Sierra Leone .
The former Liberian president is facing 11 charges for allegedly instigating a rebel campaign of rape , murder and mutilation in neighboring Sierra Leone that killed more than 1,00,000 people during a decade-long civil war , which started in the late 1990s .
Taylor is currently on trial for war crimes in the Hague , the Netherlands .
The court has set February 8 for the prosecution and defense to start their concluding arguments .
Diplomats say Southeast Asian nations are not able to agree on setting up a human rights commission , and on sanctions against members who fail to obey their regional bloc 's rules .
Negotiators meeting in the Philippines are rushing to complete a draft of the Association of Southeast Asian Nation 's first charter before foreign ministers from the 10-nation group meet Sunday .
The bloc has agreed on most of the charter , which will help to turn the group into a rules-based organization along the lines of the European Union .
A key sticking point is Burma , which has long been a problem for ASEAN , because of the country 's poor human rights record and its detention of activists , including Nobel Peace Prize laureate Aung San Suu Kyi .
Until now , ASEAN has operated without a constitution , choosing to rely on informal diplomacy and decision-making by consensus .
As the tsunami disaster in South Asia continues to unfold , millions of people are turning to the Internet for news updates - or to search for missing relatives .
Several weblogs , or " blogs " have been created in the days since the tragedy dedicated to providing first-hand accounts of the disaster .
Many websites have set up message boards for families who are searching for loved ones who either live or were vacationing in those countries .
The Internet has also been used to raise money for organizations involved in the relief efforts .
Internet retailer Amazon.com raised more than $ 4.5 million from its customers for the Red Cross .
U.S. and Iraqi forces have raided seven mosques believed to be providing support for insurgents in the restive western city of Ramadi .
The U.S. military says the operation is part of a joint effort to search for known terrorists and insurgents , as well as for illegal weapons .
Witnesses say soldiers arrested Sheikh Abdul Aleim Saadi , the region 's top Sunni Muslim cleric .
Also Tuesday , the United States said its warplanes conducted two strikes on buildings used by Abu Musab al-Zarqawi 's terror network in the western city of Fallujah .
Abu Musab al-Zarqawi has claimed responsibility for numerous car bombings , kidnappings and beheadings in Iraq .
In the south , an explosion rocked the city of Basra .
It was not immediately clear what caused the blast .
There were no reports of casualties .
Police in Sweden have arrested a man suspected of planning an attack in Somalia , the second such arrest there within a month .
The Swedish security police say the man , a Swedish citizen , was detained in the capital of Stockholm on Tuesday .
Police did not give the man 's name but said his arrest is linked to that of another Swedish national in the city of Gothenburg in May .
They say other people will be questioned in connection with the investigation .
Swedish authorities have expressed concern about Somali militant groups recruiting fighters from the country 's Somali immigrant population .
Over the past two decades , tens of thousands of Somalis have fled to Scandinavia to escape war and poverty in their homeland .
Turkish authorities say a double bomb attack in Istanbul has killed at least 15 people and wounded 150 others .
The bombs went off several minutes apart Sunday evening on a shopping street in a residential district of Gungoren in western Istanbul .
Officials say the first bomb caused a small blast in a telephone booth , drawing a crowd to the site before the second and more powerful device exploded .
Both bombs were placed in trash cans .
Turkish President Abdullah Gul condemned the attack and described its perpetrators as ruthless and savage terrorists .
Authorities are investigating who was behind the bombings .
Several groups have carried out bomb attacks in Istanbul in the past , including Kurdish separatists , far-left activists and Islamists .
Dozens of heads of state in the African continent are meeting in Abuja , Nigeria Sunday to discuss ways to bring peace and prosperity to the world 's most impoverished continent .
Among those attending the summit of the 53-member African Union are United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan and Nigerian President Olusegan Obasanjo , who is the head of the AU .
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak is attending his first African summit in a decade .
The two-day summit ending Monday will focus on solving ongoing conflicts in the Ivory Coast and the Democratic Republic of Congo , as well as the humanitarian crisis in Sudan 's Darfur region .
The leaders will also discuss a greater role for Africa on the U.N. Security Council under reforms planned for the 15-member body .
Egypt 's President Hosni Mubarak says the militant Islamic group Hamas must recognize Israel if it wants to form a Palestinian government .
Mr. Mubarak spoke in an interview with an Israeli newspaper , Yedioth Ahronoth .
It is the first time that Egypt has laid down conditions for Hamas to form a government in the Palestinian territories .
At the same time , Egypt 's president asked Israel to be patient .
He said he was sure Hamas wants to live in peace and has no plans to establish a terrorist state in the West Bank and Gaza Strip .
Hamas scored an overwhelming victory in Palestinian elections in January , trouncing the ruling Fatah party .
Fatah has indicated that it prefers not to participate in a Hamas-led government .
Egypt has been trying to mediate between Hamas and Fatah .
Iran 's newly elected President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
Aides to Iranian President-elect Mahmoud Ahmadinejad have again rejected accusations that he was involved in the 1979 seizure of the American embassy in Tehran .
One senior campaign advisor said Saturday that photographs of a hostage-taker purported to be a young Mr. Ahmadinejad actually show someone else .
Some of the hostage-takers also have denied that he played any role in the siege .
And other aides to the president-elect have added to the denials .
The White House says it is looking into allegations linking the Iranian president-elect to the crisis that lasted 444 days .
Another accusation against Mr. Ahmadinejad has surfaced in Europe .
An Austrian political figure contends that the Iranian president-elect was involved in the 1989 slaying in Vienna of a Kurdish opposition leader .
Aides to Mr. Ahmadinejad said the latest accusation is not worth comment .
An Afghan official says the country has made significant progress in its war on drugs .
The deputy interior minister for counternarcotics , General Mohammed Daoud , says anti-drug forces confiscated 40 tons of opium in the first five months of this year , compared to 135 tons during last full year and 10 tons in 2003 .
His comments follow U.S. criticism of the Afghan anti-opium program , and President Hamid Karzai 's recent visit to Washington , where he promised to eradicate Afghan poppy production in the next six years .
Afghanistan is the world 's largest producer of opium .
Washington is pouring hundreds of millions of dollars into Afghanistan 's anti-drug efforts , saying the opium growing industry is now a bigger threat there than the remaining Taleban-led militants .
Montenegro severed its economy from federal control and from Serbia during the MILOSEVIC era and maintained its own central bank , adopted the Deutchmark , then the euro - rather than the Yugoslav dinar - as official currency , collected customs tariffs , and managed its own budget .
The dissolution of the loose political union between Serbia and Montenegro in 2006 led to separate membership in several international financial institutions , such as the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development .
In January 2007 , Montenegro joined the World Bank and IMF .
Montenegro is pursuing its own membership in the World Trade Organization and signed a Stabilization and Association agreement with the European Union in October 2007 .
The European Council granted candidate country status to Montenegro at the December 2010 session .
Unemployment and regional disparities in development are key political and economic problems .
Montenegro has privatized its large aluminum complex - the dominant industry - as well as most of its financial sector , and has begun to attract foreign direct investment in the tourism sector .
The global financial crisis has had a significant negative impact on the economy , due to the ongoing credit crunch , a decline in the real estate sector , and a fall in aluminum exports .
Afghanistan 's economy is recovering from decades of conflict .
The economy has improved significantly since the fall of the Taliban regime in 2001 largely because of the infusion of international assistance , the recovery of the agricultural sector , and service sector growth .
Despite the progress of the past few years , Afghanistan is extremely poor , landlocked , and highly dependent on foreign aid , agriculture , and trade with neighboring countries .
Much of the population continues to suffer from shortages of housing , clean water , electricity , medical care , and jobs .
Criminality , insecurity , weak governance , and the Afghan Government 's inability to extend rule of law to all parts of the country pose challenges to future economic growth .
Afghanistan 's living standards are among the lowest in the world .
While the international community remains committed to Afghanistan 's development , pledging over $ 67 billion at four donors ' conferences since 2002 , the Government of Afghanistan will need to overcome a number of challenges , including low revenue collection , anemic job creation , high levels of corruption , weak government capacity , and poor public infrastructure .
Israel has a technologically advanced market economy .
It depends on imports of crude oil , grains , raw materials , and military equipment .
Despite limited natural resources , Israel has intensively developed its agricultural and industrial sectors over the past 20 years .
Cut diamonds , high-technology equipment , and agricultural products ( fruits and vegetables ) are the leading exports .
Israel usually posts sizable trade deficits , which are covered by large transfer payments from abroad and by foreign loans .
Roughly half of the government 's external debt is owed to the US , its major source of economic and military aid .
Israel 's GDP , after contracting slightly in 2001 and 2002 due to the Palestinian conflict and troubles in the high-technology sector , grew about 5 % per year from 2004 - 7 .
The global financial crisis of 2008 - 9 spurred a brief recession in Israel , but the country entered the crisis with solid fundamentals - following years of prudent fiscal policy and a series of liberalizing reforms - and a resilient banking sector , and the economy has shown signs of an early recovery .
Following GDP growth of 4 % in 2008 , Israel 's GDP slipped to 0.2 % in 2009 , but reached 3.4 % in 2010 , as exports rebounded .
The global economic downturn affected Israel 's economy primarily through reduced demand for Israel 's exports in the United States and EU , Israel 's top trading partners .
Exports of goods and services account for about 40 % of the country 's GDP .
The Israeli Government responded to the recession by implementing a modest fiscal stimulus package and an aggressive expansionary monetary policy - including cutting interest rates to record lows , purchasing government bonds , and intervening in the foreign currency market .
The Bank of Israel began raising interest rates in the summer of 2009 when inflation rose above the upper end of the Bank 's target and the economy began to show signs of recovery .
Among the 25 poorest countries in the world , Mali is a landlocked country highly dependent on gold mining and agricultural exports for revenue .
The country 's fiscal status fluctuates with gold and agricultural commodity prices and the harvest .
Mali remains dependent on foreign aid .
Economic activity is largely confined to the riverine area irrigated by the Niger River and about 65 % of its land area is desert or semidesert .
About 10 % of the population is nomadic and some 80 % of the labor force is engaged in farming and fishing .
Industrial activity is concentrated on processing farm commodities .
The government has continued an IMF-recommended structural adjustment program that has helped the economy grow , diversify , and attract foreign investment .
Mali is developing its cotton and iron ore extraction industries to diversify its revenue sources because gold production has started to fall .
Mali has invested in tourism but security issues are hurting the industry .
Mali 's adherence to economic reform and the 50 % devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994 have pushed up economic growth to a 5 % average in 1996 - 2010 .
Worker remittances and external trade routes for the landlocked country have been jeopardized by continued unrest in neighboring Cote d'Ivoire .
However , Mali is building a road network that will connect it to all adjacent countries and it has a railway line to Senegal .
In 2010 , Mali experienced a regional drought that hurt livestock and livelihoods .
The economy benefits substantially from financial assistance from the US .
The rate of funding has declined as locally generated government revenues have grown .
The key tourist industry employs about 50 % of the work force and accounts for roughly one-fourth of GDP .
Japanese tourists predominate .
Annual tourist entries have exceeded one-half million in recent years , but financial difficulties in Japan have caused a temporary slowdown .
The agricultural sector is made up of cattle ranches and small farms producing coconuts , breadfruit , tomatoes , and melons .
Garment production is by far the most important industry with the employment of 17,500 mostly Chinese workers and sizable shipments to the US under duty and quota exemptions .
THE LION , the Fox and the Ass entered into an agreement to assist each other in the chase .
Having secured a large booty , the Lion on their return from the forest asked the Ass to allot his due portion to each of the three partners in the treaty .
The Ass carefully divided the spoil into three equal shares and modestly requested the two others to make the first choice .
The Lion , bursting out into a great rage , devoured the Ass .
Then he requested the Fox to do him the favor to make a division .
The Fox accumulated all that they had killed into one large heap and left to himself the smallest possible morsel .
The Lion said , " Who has taught you , my very excellent fellow , the art of division ? You are perfect to a fraction . "
He replied , " I learned it from the Ass , by witnessing his fate . "
Happy is the man who learns from the misfortunes of others .
A JUDGE was awakened by the noise of a lawyer prosecuting a Thief .
Rising in wrath he was about to sentence the Thief to life imprisonment when the latter said :
" I beg that you will set me free , and I will some day requite your kindness . "
Pleased and flattered to be bribed , although by nothing but an empty promise , the Judge let him go.
Soon afterward he found that it was more than an empty promise , for , having become a Thief , he was himself set free by the other , who had become a Judge .
If you love something , set it free .
If it comes back , it was and always will be yours .
If it never returns , it was never yours to begin with .
If it just sits in your living room and messes up your stuff , eats your food , uses your telephone , takes your money and never behaves as if you actually set it free in the first place -- you either married it or gave birth to it !
Canadian officials say Japan is banning all poultry exports from Canada after bird flu was found in a duck in the western province of British Columbia .
Officials also say Hong Kong , Taiwan , and the United States are imposing temporary bans on poultry from British Columbia .
The sick duck came from a commercial farm near Vancouver .
Canadian authorities said Monday the duck did not have the same bird flu strain that has killed more than 60 people in Asia since 2003 .
But they are killing almost 60-thousand ducks on the farm as a precaution .
Also Monday , Romanian officials said British lab tests confirmed four dead chickens in a remote Danube River village had bird flu .
China 's agriculture ministry also said Monday that bird flu has been found in chickens , ducks , and geese last week in Inner Mongolia and Hubei province .
Venezuela 's state-owned oil company says it is beginning to explore for oil in Cuban waters as part of a joint venture with the island 's state-owned Cubapetroleo .
Petroleos de Venezuela ( PDVSA ) said in a statement that the project would cover a 10,000-square-kilometer area and begin Wednesday .
The Venezuelan company says it expects to confirm the presence of light crude oil after conducting a seismic study .
Earlier this year , Venezuela offered discounted oil to Cuba , Bolivia , Nicaragua and Haiti in exchange for becoming the sole provider to those countries .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez said his country 's oil will help with both economic and social development in the area .
The proposal called for Venezuela to offer oil at a 50 percent discount .
Venezuela sells about 98,000 barrels of crude oil daily to Cuba .
In return , Cuba provides Venezuela with medical personnel .
Authorities in Niger have detained a local journalist they say is linked to Tuareg rebels in the northern part of the country .
Moussa Kaka , a reporter for Radio France International , has been held since Thursday .
He is accused of what authorities call " conniving " with the rebel Niger Movement for Justice .
The rebel group has captured about 40 soldiers during raids in northern Niger this year .
Another 40 government troops have been killed in rebel attacks .
Tuareg rebels have been demanding a larger share of royalties from uranium mining in the northeast .
The government dismisses the rebels as bandits and drug traffickers .
Niger temporarily suspended local Radio France FM broadcasts in July , claiming their reports were biased toward the rebels .
Radio France confirmed Kaka 's detention on its Web site .
It did not comment on the charges against him .
The U.S. Senate has confirmed the nomination of federal Judge Samuel Alito to the Supreme Court .
The final vote was 58-to-42 , largely along party lines .
Tuesday 's vote came after the Republican-controlled Senate on Monday stopped an effort by opposition Democrats to extend the debate over Alito 's nomination .
Judge Alito is expected to be sworn in today and to attend the president 's State of the Union address with the other Supreme Court justices .
He replaces Justice Sandra Day O'Connor , who is retiring .
She was known as a " swing voter " on the Court , meaning she sometimes sided with the more conservative justices and sometimes with the more liberal ones .
Alito 's critics say he will move the Supreme Court in a more conservative direction , especially on issues like abortion and civil rights .
Delegates to a U.N. conference on global warming are working hard in the meeting 's final hours to reach a deal on long-term efforts to cut carbon emissions .
The biggest stumbling block is the United States , which rejects the Kyoto Protocol on cutting " greenhouse , " or heat-trapping , emissions .
Delegates want to extend talks on the accord , which is set to expire in 2012 .
The Bush administration says the protocol would hurt the U.S. economy , and says it unfairly exempts developing nations such as China and India .
Former U.S. President Bill Clinton rejected that charge in a surprise talk at the Montreal , Canada , summit Friday .
Mr. Clinton , who endorsed the Kyoto protocols while president , told delegates the accord would not hurt developed nations .
He added it was time to stop doubting the effect of these gases , saying " climate change is real . "
Britain has announced plans for a database of extremists who would face automatic questioning and could be barred from entering the country .
Home Secretary Charles Clark called the plan a response to the London suicide bombings that left at least 56 people dead this month .
He told parliament the database will list people known for unacceptable behavior such as preaching radical ideas , running extremist websites or writing articles that could foment terrorism .
Meanwhile , Prime Minister Tony Blair told lawmakers he is considering calling an international conference on ways to root out Islamic extremism .
He said it would address such issues as ways of dealing with Islamic schools that teach extremism .
Late Tuesday , British police removed a bomb-mangled 20-ton train car from a central London subway station nearly two weeks after the attacks .
Mexican police say they have found 12 mutilated corpses in hidden graves on the outskirts of Cancun , the latest sign drug-related violence is spreading to the popular tourist destination .
Authorities announced the discovery Friday , adding that some of the bodies had the letter " Z " carved on their chests , a likely reference to the powerful Zetas drug smuggling gang .
The grim find is at least the second such discovery this month .
In May , Mexican police arrested Cancun 's mayor Gregorio Sanchez on suspicion of offering information and protection to the Zetas , as well as the Beltran Leyva cartel .
Sanchez 's Democratic Revolutionary Party denounced the charges .
President Bush will meet with his Colombian counterpart , Alvaro Uribe , after Mr. Bush leaves the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation , APEC , summit later this month .
White House spokesman Scott McClellan said Friday the president will briefly meet with President Uribe in the Colombian resort town of Cartagena on November 22 .
Mr. Bush will be flying back from the two-day meeting of APEC leaders that begins November 21 in Santiago , Chile .
It will be his first trip abroad since winning re-election last week .
Mr. Bush and Mr. Uribe last met at the White House in March , and agreed to begin negotiations on a free trade agreement .
After leaving Colombia , the president will head to his ranch in Texas for the Thanksgiving holiday .
Authorities in Yemen have detained an Australian woman for suspected ties to a militant group and have placed her two young children under house arrest .
A lawyer for Shyloh Giddens said Wednesday his client was arrested in mid-May along with at least one Bangladeshi woman who has since been deported .
Attorney Abdul Rahman Barman says Giddens , who converted to Islam , moved to Yemen in 2006 .
He says Yemeni authorities have not provided any specific reason for her arrest .
The French News Agency quotes Barman as saying people get arrested in Yemen based on " wrong U.S. intelligence information . "
He says many are accused of having links to al-Qaida .
Germany 's constitutional court has rejected a request by two lawmakers to prevent the deployment of German fighter jets in Afghanistan to support NATO forces there .
The lawmakers argued that sending the aircraft would entangle Germany in what the plaintiffs called " illegal operations " of the U.S. military .
The two are from German Chancellor Angela Merkel 's governing Christian Democratic party and its allied party , the Christian Social Union .
The two lawmakers went to court after Germany 's lower house of parliament voted overwhelmingly Friday ( 405 - 157 ) to send the Tornado aircraft .
The planes are to provide NATO forces with aerial images of the positions of Taleban fighters .
Opponents say the mission amounts to a combat role for the German planes .
Germany has 3,000 troops in Afghanistan in the largely peaceful north , but it has come under pressure to take a more active role in the war .
V-E Day is short for Victory in Europe Day , when the Allies accepted Germany 's surrender , ending World War II in Europe .
The White House hosted an online discussion Wednesday , fielding questions about President Bush 's upcoming trip through Europe and Russia , in honor of the historic moment .
U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Daniel Fried and Special Assistant to the President Thomas Graham answered questions Wednesday on the White House interactive website about President Bush 's VE day visits to the Netherlands , Russia and Georgia .
Questions were taken from around the world .
The discussion covered a range of topics , but mostly focused on issues within each country the president will visit .
A number of e-mails asked about Russia , its democratization process , and its role in European Union politics .
From May 6 to 10 , President Bush will visit Latvia , the Netherlands , Russia , and Georgia .
A new poll indicates U.S. public opinion of President Bush 's handling of the war in Iraq has hit a new low .
A survey by the U.S. publication Newsweek magazine indicates that 61 percent disapprove of his effort , with only 34 percent of those polled expressing approval .
The findings , which echo other recent polls , represent the lowest rating yet on Mr. Bush 's handling of Iraq .
The president 's overall approval rating dropped to 42 percent , while 51 percent of Americans answering the poll said they do not like the way he is handling the job .
Supporters have expressed concern Mr. Bush 's plummeting poll numbers and rising U.S. death toll in Iraq will affect next year 's congressional elections .
Hours after 14 U.S. Marines were killed in Iraq last week , President Bush said American troops will remain in the country until Iraqi forces can deal with the insurgency .
American and Iraqi troops have launched a new counterinsurgency operation in western Iraq .
A U.S. military spokesman Saturday , said about 500 U.S. Marines and 100 Iraqi soldiers are carrying out the offensive in Iraq 's western Anbar province .
They say 22 suspected insurgents have been detained since the operation began southeast of Falluja Thursday .
It is the fourth major counterinsurgency operation in Anbar province in the past month .
Military officials say the province stretching from the Syrian border to just west of Baghdad is a conduit for foreign militants entering Iraq .
Meanwhile , Iraqi and U.S. officials say they are concerned over a series of attacks on foreign diplomats in recent days .
Several high-level Arab officials have been targeted and Egypt 's ambassador Ihab al-Sherif was assassinated earlier this week .
Haitian police have killed a prominent rebel wanted in connection with the murder of four police officers earlier in the year .
Officials said Sunday Jean Rene Anthony was killed in a shootout with police near the capital city of Port-au-Prince .
The gunbattle came a day after another rebel leader , Remissaninthe Ravix , was killed in a shootout with Haitian authorities .
Mr. Ravix , the self-proclaimed leader of Haiti 's disbanded military , was one of four leaders of a February 2004 revolt that forced Mr. Aristide to flee the country .
Haitian officials had been searching for the two men in recent weeks in connection with several police killings .
Hurricane Ike roared through vital parts of the U.S. oil industry , boosted gasoline prices , and probably cost insurance companies billions of dollars Saturday .
Oil company officials say they are sending workers to assess damage at off-shore oil rigs and coastal refineries .
U.S. government officials say they are prepared to release stocks from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to help make up for lost production .
Concerns about possible supply shortages have pushed gasoline prices up in some areas of the U.S. To boost gasoline supplies , the government has made it easier for companies to import fuel by suspending rules requiring certain formulations of gasoline to meet environmental standards .
Meantime , three groups of insurance industry experts have widely differing estimates of the storm 's cost to insurance companies -- ranging from six billion dollars to 18 billion dollars .
Following her crucial victory in the Democratic Party U.S. presidential primary in ( the northeastern state of ) Pennsylvania , Senator Hillary Clinton says she is still the best candidate to defeat the presumptive Republican nominee , Senator John McCain , in the general election .
VOA 's Robert Raffaele has the story .
The British government has proposed legally binding targets for reducing carbon emissions , becoming the first country to outline a legal framework for confronting global warming .
If approved by parliament , the bill introduced Tuesday would bind the government to cut carbon dioxide emissions by 26 to 32 percent by 2020 , and 60 percent by 2050 .
Officials say failure to meet interim targets could land the government in court .
Prime Minister Tony Blair told reporters the proposed legislation is a revolutionary step that " sets an example for the rest of the world . "
European Union leaders last week agreed to cut carbon emissions from vehicles and factories by at least 20 percent over the next 13 years .
The EU plan calls for renewable energy sources , such as hydroelectric , solar and wind power , to replace heavily polluting fossil fuels .
Police say insurgents in Russia 's volatile southern republic of Dagestan have killed a prosecutor and then ambushed the regional government 's interior minister on his way to the scene of the first attack .
Russian news reports say the minister escaped , but two police officers accompanying him were mortally wounded .
Authorities say a bomb exploded as a car carrying prosecutor Bitar Bitarov to his office in the republic capital , Makhachkala , passed by .
The prosecutor later died at a local hospital .
Attackers later fired on a second vehicle carrying regional Interior Minister Adilgerei Magomedtagirov and several police officers as they approached the scene to investigate .
The two wounded officers died on the way to a hospital .
Dagestan borders Chechnya , where Islamic separatists have been fighting government forces for more than a decade .
An independent police panel in Britain says its probe into the fatal shooting of a Brazilian man by British police after the London subway bombings should be completed by the end of the year .
Britain 's Independent Police Complaints Commission said Tuesday findings of the investigation into the death of 27-year-old Jean Charles de Menezes will not be published until all of the case proceedings are complete , including any punishments against the officers involved .
Monday , two senior Brazilian justice officials conferred in London with senior police officials about the probe .
British police shot and killed Mr. de Menezes July 22 on a London subway train - one day after four failed bombings on the city 's transit system .
Police said the Brazilian man 's suspicious behavior led them to believe he was a terrorist .
But recent news reports have cast doubt on the official version .
Iran 's supreme leader says he sees no benefit to negotiations with the United States on his country 's nuclear program .
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei added Iran will not negotiate its right to use nuclear technology with anyone .
But he says Iran is willing to discuss international supervision of its program if other countries accept Iran 's right to a nuclear program .
The United States has offered to join European talks with Iran if it first agrees to suspend uranium enrichment .
On Monday , Iranian nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani said Iran is seriously considering a package of international incentives aimed at convincing Iran to abandon enrichment .
He said Iran will respond as soon as possible to the offer from the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council and Germany .
The United States and its European allies accuse Iran of trying to develop nuclear weapons .
Tehran denies the allegation .
The United States and China have opened annual talks on economic issues , with Washington seeking changes to China 's economy and financial markets .
Treasury Secretary John Snow and Federal Reserve ( central bank ) chairman Alan Greenspan lead the U.S. side at the meeting outside Beijing in Xianghe .
The talks are part of an effort to close the record trade gap between the countries .
China sold the United States $ 162 billion more goods than it bought last year and a larger gap is forecast for this year .
A U.S. treasury official said that Washington is focusing on more than currency issues in its attempts to find a solution to the trade imbalance .
U.S. businesses accuse China of manipulating its currency to give Chinese exports an unfair price advantage .
Afghan officials say they fear more than 64 people may have been killed by a massive avalanche along a key northern road .
Interior Minister Hanif Atmar said Tuesday that rescuers have already recovered 24 bodies from the Salang Pass , but they fear that more than 40 others still trapped have already died .
Hundreds of people have been rescued , but the 3,400-meter-high mountain pass , as well as a nearby tunnel , remain blocked .
Local officials said days of heavy snow led to avalanches that buried part of the mountain pass that connects Kabul to the northern city Mazar-i-Sharif .
President Hamid Karzai has released a statement expressing condolences for the victims and ordered Afghan public works officials to assist the rescue effort .
Egypt says it has arrested more than 10 suspected terrorists who it claims were training to wage Jihad or holy war .
An interior ministry statement released Monday says the group , including nine French citizens , two Belgians and an American , were living in Egypt under the pretense of studying Arabic and Islam .
The statement says several Egyptians , Tunisians and Syrians are also under arrest .
The statement says the group had adopted extremist views and was working to recruit new members to wage terror in Iraq .
The government says the group has links to terror organizations abroad .
The ministry did not reveal the names of those under arrest .
The U.S. embassy in Cairo has refused to comment on the arrests .
The Afghan government and the United Nations refugee agency have pledged to strengthen efforts to resettle returnees and people inside the country displaced by violence .
The pledge came after a high-profile visit to the country this week by the head of U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees , Antonio Guterres .
As VOA 's Ravi Khanna reports , the U.N. official wants the international community to do more to resettle Afghan refugees .
Thousands of demonstrators staged a peaceful rally in Russia 's capital Saturday to protest recent reforms that reduced Soviet-era subsidies for rent and utilities .
Many elderly pensioners were among the 5,000 demonstrators criticizing the rising costs of living .
Protesters say people on fixed incomes can not afford to pay household expenses given recent rate hikes and subsidy reductions .
Demonstrators are urging the government to use some of the revenue from Russia 's booming oil industry to help maintain aging buildings and to assist people who can not afford rising housing and utility costs .
The Communist Party and other leftist groups sponsored the Moscow rally .
Demonstrations were also held elsewhere in Russia Saturday , including the Siberian city of Krasnoyarsk .
Prosecutors in Kenya have charged a man with illegal possession of weapons just one day after he was acquitted of murder in the 2002 suicide bombing of an Israeli hotel .
Prosecutors accused Omar Said Omar Friday of possessing an assortment of firearms , including missile launchers and rifles .
Mr. Omar denied the charges .
The prosecution said Mr. Omar should be denied bail .
But defense lawyers said it would not be fair to keep Mr. Omar in jail , noting that he already was held for nearly two years on charges that ultimately were dismissed .
A ruling on bail is expected Monday .
A Kenyan judge said Thursday there was not sufficient evidence to link Mr. Omar to the 2002 bombing of an Israeli owned hotel in Mombasa that killed at least 15 people .
Three other Kenyans also were acquitted .
Health officials in Laos say a woman who fell ill near the Lao capital last month with symptoms of bird flu has died .
Laboratory tests had shown the 42-year-old woman had the H5 flu virus .
Hours before the woman 's death in a Vientiane hospital Sunday , authorities said it would take several more days to determine whether she carried the dangerous H5N1 strain .
The woman lived near a village where bird flu has infected poultry .
Last month , health officials confirmed the country 's first known human case of the disease in a 15-year-old girl who also lived near Vientiane .
Bird flu first appeared in Laos in 2004 .
It is known to have killed 167 people worldwide since 2003 , mostly in Asia .
Authorities in southern Afghanistan say suspected Taleban insurgents have shot and critically wounded a pro-government Islamic cleric .
They say Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Masah , a member of the influential Ulema Council of clerics , was ambushed and shot Sunday as he was leaving home near Kandahar city .
Elsewhere , Reuters news agency reports U.S. warplanes have again pounded suspected militant positions in eastern Kunar province .
U.S. forces are searching the rugged area for a Special Forces unit that has been missing since Tuesday , just before a helicopter going to its rescue was shot down , killing all 16 troops on board .
Afghan government officials say a similar U.S. air strike in Kunar late Friday caused casualties .
There are conflicting accounts whether civilians were killed .
French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin has urged the United States and other nations with troops in Iraq to withdraw from the country within one year .
In a speech Friday at Harvard University in Cambridge , in the northeastern state of Massachusetts , Villepin said the United States remains the leading power in the world .
But he noted the war in Iraq marked a turning point , undermining not only America 's image , but also the image of the West as a whole .
Villepin continued that it is time for the United States and Europe to regain the respect and admiration of other peoples .
Villepin said he believes a timetable for the withdrawal of all foreign troops is needed to allow Iraqis to feel their future is in their own hands and to put them back on the path of national sovereignty .
Israeli doctors say Prime Minister Ariel Sharon , who remains in a coma since suffering a stroke two weeks ago , underwent a surgical procedure overnight to replace his breathing tube .
The Hadassah hospital in Jerusalem issued a statement Wednesday morning , saying the procedure was necessary because the respiratory pipe developed a technical problem .
The statement said Mr. Sharon 's condition continues to be critical but stable .
The 77-year-old prime minister has been on respirator since he was incapacitated by a brain hemorrhage on January 4 .
Reporters Without Borders is calling on Venezuela 's government to discuss what it calls FALSE accusations made by Venezuelan officials in response to recent criticism by the organization .
The Paris-based group says Venezuela 's information ministry unfairly lashed out after it expressed concern about the recent detention of a Venezuelan journalist ( Gustavo Azocar ) on fraud and embezzlement charges .
The organization says the ministry responded by accusing Reporters Without Borders of being part of a psychological war campaign by the United States .
It says the ministry also said the group was paid by the U.S. government and secret services .
Reporters Without Borders denies both accusations and says it will continue to question governments on any issue it feels restricts press freedom .
The U.S. city of Los Angeles in the western state of California , and two Indian film industry groups have signed an agreement to boost cooperation between the U.S. and Indian moviemaking industries .
The Motion Picture Association of America announced the deal late Wednesday in Los Angeles .
At the signing of the deal , Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa said the declaration reinforces the city 's commitment to attracting international production .
The U.S. and Indian film industries , known as Hollywood and Bollywood respectively , dominate the world of moviemaking .
The Hindi films My Name is Khan and Kiteswere recently filmed in Los Angeles .
Representatives of the two industries agreed earlier this year to fight movie piracy , which is common in India .
An Associated Press correspondent left Ethiopia Sunday after getting an expulsion order from the government .
Anthony Mitchell was told by Ethiopian officials on Saturday he had 24 hours to leave the country .
The news agency says attempts to appeal the order went unanswered .
In a statement , the Ethiopian government accused Mitchell of reporting information " far from the truth " and tarnishing the country 's image .
Associated Press managing editor Mike Silverman says the news agency will stand behind Mitchell , a British journalist he describes as aggressive and fair .
Ethiopia recently began a crackdown on the press and opposition groups , charging 129 people with treason and genocide .
Among those charged are five Voice of America journalists in Washington .
South Korean Foreign Ministry officials say the Japanese foreign minister has misguided views on the history between the two countries .
The criticism from Seoul Monday came in response to Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso 's comments Saturday about visits to a controversial war shrine in Tokyo .
Mr. Aso said Japan did not have to worry about being isolated because of Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi 's visits to the shrine since the only countries complaining were South Korea and China .
Japan 's relations with its two neighbors have deteriorated because of Mr. Koizumi 's annual visits to the shrine most recently last month .
The shrine deifies war criminals among the war dead honored there .
South Korea and China have said the shrine glorifies Japan 's militarist past .
Syria 's foreign minister , Farouk al-Shara , says his government will exchange ambassadors with Baghdad when a new Iraqi government is formed .
This is the first time that Damascus has set a time frame for restoring ties .
Al-Shara says Syria welcomes a close relationship with Iraq and is committed to Iraq 's territorial integrity and to an end to the U.S. occupation .
Damascus broke off relations with Baghdad more than 20 years ago .
Relations between the two countries deteriorated after Syria sided with Iran in the Iran-Iraq war .
Syria also joined the U.S.-led coalition against Iraq in the 1991 Gulf War .
Iraq is encouraging Arab countries to send ambassadors to Baghdad .
Turkey 's military says 15 Kurdish rebels have been killed in Turkish attacks on suspected rebel targets in northern Iraq .
The military said Saturday the rebels - from the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party ( PKK ) - were killed Thursday in artillery fire aimed at stopping the group from attacking Turkish targets .
A military statement said Turkish warplanes followed up the attack with airstrikes in northern Iraq Friday , but it was unclear if there were casualties .
Turkey accuses PKK militants of using suspected strongholds in northern Iraq to launch attacks in Turkey .
The PKK has been fighting for Kurdish autonomy in Turkey 's mainly Kurdish southeast for nearly 25 years .
The violence has killed more than 30,000 people .
Turkey , the United States and other nations have designated the PKK a terrorist group .
Venezuela says it hopes to sign a new agreement with the United States next month on anti-drug cooperation .
Venezuelan anti-drug chief Luis Correa said Monday the deal will be signed around July 8 .
The U.S. Embassy in Caracas said the two sides are close to an agreement .
Reports say Venezuela wants the new accord to restrict U.S. agents operating in the Andean country but ensure cooperation in the areas of information-sharing , technology and training .
Last August , Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez accused the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration of spying on his government under the guise of fighting drug trafficking and suspended cooperation with the agency .
The U.S. government responded by revoking the visas of three Venezuelan military officers suspected of involvement in drug trafficking .
In September , the U.S. government said Venezuela had " failed demonstrably " to adhere to its obligations under international anti-narcotics agreements .
Indian Defense Minister Pranab Mukherjee will now run the foreign ministry , after a Cabinet reshuffle that brings in three new faces .
The new defense minister will be A.K. Antony , a former chief minister of the southern Indian state of Kerala .
Also sworn in as junior ministers were M.H. Ambareesh , a film actor-turned Congress politician , and Jayprakash Narain Yadav of the government 's coalition partner , Rashtriya Janata Dal .
The crucial foreign ministry post fell vacant last November when then-minister Natwar Singh was charged with receiving kickbacks in the investigation of the UN oil-for-food program in Iraq .
This reshuffle takes the number of ministers in the three-level Cabinet to 80 .
It has 34 ministers , seven deputy ministers and 39 junior ministers .
A suicide attack in southwestern Afghanistan Thursday killed six police officers and an Indian construction engineer , and wounded a dozen others .
Among those wounded were 11 Afghan police and another Indian .
The attack targeted a convoy carrying a group of Indian engineers in Nimroz province .
Afghan police did not say who was behind the attack , but Taliban rebels have often been blamed for such attacks .
A resurgent Taliban movement and other Afghan rebel forces have stepped up their attacks against Afghan , U.S. and NATO forces over the past year .
On Wednesday , U.S. military officials in Afghanistan said a soldier and his Afghan interpreter were killed in a roadside bombing in the eastern province of Khost .
And Afghanistan 's Defense Ministry said Wednesday at least four militants were killed in separate incidents when bombs they were planting exploded prematurely .
Rebels in Sudan 's war-torn Darfur region say they have shot down an unmanned spy plane which , they say , the Sudanese government was using to track their positions .
A spokesman for the Sudan Liberation Army said its forces shot down the unmanned drone Thursday in the central mountainous Jabel Marra area .
A Sudanese army spokesman said an unmanned plane had made an emergency landing in the area , but was not able to say whether the aircraft was shot down .
Rebels say the aircraft appears to be Chinese-made .
Rights groups criticize China for selling weapons to Sudan 's government which , they say , are used against rebels in Darfur .
More than five years of fighting in Darfur among rebel groups , the government and government-allied militias have killed more than 2,00,000 people and displaced more than 2.5 million others .
Irish physicians have recorded what they believe is the country 's first case of the human variant of mad cow disease , a fatal brain-wasting illness .
Physicians said Wednesday in Dublin that tests on a man in his early 20s have confirmed he is most likely suffering from variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease .
The illness is the human form of the brain-wasting disease in cattle known as bovine spongiform encephalopathy .
Physicians say humans usually contract the human form of the illness by eating contaminated beef .
The illness has killed more than 100 people in Europe , most of them in Britain , since the mid-1990s .
The only previous case in Ireland involved a young woman who had spent much of her time in Britain .
Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh says there is an urgent need in India to counter a sense of alienation among its minority Muslims .
He told a meeting of state chief ministers in New Delhi that they should make sure that efforts to end Islamist militancy do not victimize the entire community .
He said no innocent person should be harassed in India 's struggle against terrorism .
Mr. Singh said any kind of insecurity among India 's 140 million Muslims could have extremely damaging effects on the country and fuel more terrorism .
His remarks came less than two months after train bombings in Mumbai were blamed on domestic Islamist militants with links across the border in Pakistan .
The bomb attacks in Mumbai prompted police raids on the city 's Muslim ghettos and the detention of hundreds .
U.S. and Brazilian media reports say police have arrested a key al-Qaida operative in the Brazilian city of Sao Paulo .
The arrest was reported Tuesday by the Associated Press ( AP ) and Brazil 's daily newspaper , Folha de S. Paulo .
The suspect was not identified by name , nor was his nationality given .
But the AP said a federal police spokeswoman confirmed the newspaper 's report that the suspect is a top player in al-Qaida 's international communications .
She said the suspect is being held under laws that prohibit the promotion of racism in Brazil .
An internet message bearing the signature of a group that says it has links to al-Qaida is threatening a " bloody war " against European countries unless they pull their troops out of Iraq within one month .
The message , posted on an Islamist web site , says it speaks for the Abu-Hafs al-Masri Brigades , one of two groups whose signature appeared on statements claiming responsibility for the deadly July seventh bombings in London .
The statement , which mentioned Denmark , Italy , Britain and the Netherlands , said there will be no other warnings after the one-month ultimatum expires .
Experts have viewed past statements by the Abu-Hafs al-Masri Brigades with doubt , because the group has no proven track record of attacks and has claimed responsibility for events in which it was unlikely to have played any role .
A U.S. official in Iraq says four American security guards have been killed in a suicide car bomb attack on a U.S. diplomatic convoy in the northern city of Mosul .
The official , who spoke on condition of anonymity , said two other guards were wounded in the attack on a three-vehicle diplomatic convoy , Tuesday .
Meanwhile , Britain has admitted that British troops in Basra used an armored vehicle to smash down a jail wall in a bid to free two detained undercover soldiers .
A Defense Ministry statement says the local British commander acted Monday because he feared the detained soldiers were being handed over to local Iraqi militia , which later proved to be correct .
Britain says the soldiers were freed from a nearby house where they had been taken before the military action on the prison .
Iraqi police had detained the British undercover soldiers after a clash in the southern city .
Iraq 's controversial deputy Prime Minister Ahmad Chalabi is meeting with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice Wednesday in Washington .
The meeting comes as Democratic U.S. lawmakers are asking Mr. Chalabi to discuss pre-war Iraq intelligence he provided about Saddam Hussein 's weapons that later proved faulty .
Mr. Chalabi is also accused last year of passing U.S. intelligence to Iran , and in 2004 U.S. forces raided his Baghdad offices .
Despite the allegations , U.S. State Department spokesman Adam Ereli said Tuesday U.S. officials regularly meet with Mr. Chalabi in his capacity as a representative of Iraq 's government .
Later Wednesday , Mr. Chalabi delivers a speech at a conservative public policy organization , the American Enterprise Institute .
It will be his first public speech in the United States in more than two years .
South Korea 's foreign ministry says pirates , probably from Somalia , have hijacked an oil tanker .
The ministry says the tanker , the Samho Dream , was on its way from Iraq to the United States when it was seized Sunday off the coast of East Africa .
It says the ship has a crew of five South Koreans and 19 Filipinos .
Somali pirates have been especially active in recent weeks , taking advantage of good weather to hijack 16 ships since the beginning of March .
International naval forces have stopped numerous attacks and detained dozens of pirates .
But the forces can not fully cover the vast areas of the Indian Ocean and Gulf of Aden in which the pirates operate .
Pirates usually release the hijacked ships and their crews unharmed after receiving a ransom , sometimes worth millions of dollars .
Turkey 's parliament has approved sending military forces to join a United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon .
Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan had urged support for the mission following a cease-fire between Israel and the Lebanese group Hezbollah .
Lawmakers voted 340 to 192 to approve the deployment Tuesday .
Turkish officials say they will send nearly 1,000 military personnel to conduct naval patrols off Lebanon and to help train Lebanese troops .
Before the vote , thousands of people rallied outside the parliament building in Ankara to protest the mission .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan arrived in Ankara today for talks on the U.N. force .
Turkey is the second Muslim country , after Qater , to commit troops to the expanded force .
Militants in Saudi Arabia have attacked the U.S. Consulate in the port city of Jeddah with machine guns and explosives .
Authorities say at least four Saudi security guards and three of the attackers are dead .
A Saudi Interior Ministry statement said militants launched the late-morning attack with explosives aimed at the main gate of the heavily-fortified U.S. compound .
Two gunmen were reported in custody and officials say security forces had regained control of the compound by mid-afternoon .
There has been no claim of responsibility .
The attack is the latest in a series of assaults targeting foreigners in the kingdom over the past 18 months .
The U.S. State Department has issued a series of travel warnings in the past year , urging all non-essential Americans to leave the country .
The U.S. military says nearly two dozen militants were killed during a rare frontal attack on a U.S. base in southern Afghanistan .
A statement from the U.S. led coalition says a group of 75 Taleban militants tried to overrun the base in southern Uruzgan province earlier Tuesday .
The statement says Afghan and U.S. forces backed by air support repelled the attack , killing more than 20 militants .
Two Afghan girls and two Afghan soldiers were wounded .
Violence has surged in Afghanistan over the past year and half as suspected Taleban militants have stepped up suicide attacks and roadside bombings .
More than 50,000 NATO and U.S. forces are battling the renewed insurgency in their strongholds in southern and eastern Afghanistan .
A South Korean newspaper reports that a North Korean spy entered the South in 2003 by pretending to be an asylum-seeker .
South Korea 's JoongAng Ilbo reports the North Korean joined a group of refugees who entered the South Korean Embassy in Beijing in 2002 .
The newspaper says he spent more than a year in South Korea , collecting information on Seoul 's handling of refugees .
Officials in Seoul say the man returned to North Korea in April , then came back to the South a month later , where he surrendered to authorities .
South Korea 's Yonhap news agency quotes government officials as saying they are investigating the 28-year-old on suspicion of spying for North Korea , but they doubt he actually conveyed any sensitive information .
Afghan officials say Taliban militants killed 11 policemen late Sunday , while two NATO soldiers died in a separate incident in the southern Afghan province of Kandahar .
The local deputy police chief , Amanullah Khan , says Taliban militants opened fire on a group of sleeping policemen at a remote checkpoint in Kandahar 's Arghandab district .
He said preliminary reports indicate that one of the policemen had links with the Taliban .
Meanwhile , the British Defense Ministry confirmed that two Royal Air Force servicemen were killed when their vehicle hit an explosive device .
NATO 's International Security Assistance Force says two other British soldiers were wounded in the blast Sunday .
The ISAF did not disclose the exact location of the incident .
The Taliban ambush was the latest in a series of recent attacks on Afghan police in the south .
Eight police officers were killed Saturday in Kandahar and neighboring Helmand Provinces by the militant group .
Police in Iran say a fire at a mosque in central Tehran has killed at least 59 people and injured more than 200 others .
Iranian state media said a faulty electrical heater sparked the blaze as crowds gathered in the Arg Mosque for a major Shi'ite religious festival , Ashura .
Eyewitnesses said panicked crowds rushed for the exits and some people jumped through windows to escape the flames .
Officials in Washington and New York say they have uncovered efforts by a Chinese company to sell Iran banned materials that could be used in Tehran 's missile and nuclear programs .
Tuesday , the Manhattan ( New York City ) prosecutor unsealed a multi-count indictment against China-based LIMMT Economic and Trade company and Li Fang Wei , one of the firm 's managers .
Prosecutors allege that the Chinese company used shell ( fake ) companies and aliases to circumvent laws that prevent U.S. banks from processing transactions for certain Iranian weapons companies .
At about the same time Tuesday , the U.S. Treasury imposed sanctions on six Iranian companies and one Chinese person in connection with the same case .
The foreign minister of Chad has called on wealthy nations to help poor countries reduce poverty and advance social and economic progress .
In comments at the United Nations World Summit , llam-Mi Ahmad also appealed for fair trade laws and total debt relief for African nations .
He pledged ongoing cooperation with neighboring African countries that face the threat of terrorism .
He also made an impassioned plea for international assistance in resolving the conflict in Sudan 's western Darfur region .
Over the last two years , at least 2,00,000 Sudanese refugees from Darfur have fled across the border into Chad .
Mr. Ahmad said Chad has helped efforts to mediate the crisis and has taken on the refugees with great cost to its environment , food supply and the constant threat of ongoing violence among the various combatants .
The United Nations has hailed a decision by Pakistan to postpone the purchase of fighter jets from Washington in order to provide more relief to earthquake victims as the Himalayan winter approaches .
U.N. Emergency Coordinator Jan Vandemoortele says such moves are helpful as U.N. officials work hard to secure more funding for humanitarian aid for victims of the quake .
Officials say hundreds of thousands risk death or illness without tents , food and other supplies .
Friday , British Cabinet minister Hilary Benn said the world 's response to the large-scale disaster was not enough .
Earlier , Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf criticized the level of international aid , saying more was given to victims of the tsunami in Asia and Hurricane Katrina in the United States .
More than 73,000 Pakistanis died and more than three million people have been left homeless by the October 8 earthquake .
Insurgents have killed at least 11 people in attacks across Iraq .
In the deadliest attack , a roadside bomb killed a police officer and his four children in Tikrit .
Another roadside bomb killed at least one person in Kirkuk .
In Baghdad , a suicide car bomber killed four people , included two police officers .
Other attacks across the city wounded five U.S. soldiers .
And in Baquba , a police officer was killed in a drive-by shooting .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says soldiers killed two suspected members of al-Qaida in Iraq and detained 22 others during raids in Mosul and Ramadi .
The violence comes after Iraq 's Independent Electoral Commission said it found no serious election fraud in Iraq 's recent constitutional referendum .
Official results have not yet been announced .
officials are searching for survivors in a turbulent river from a ferry that capsized and killed at least 20 people .
Officials say more than 100 people were on the ferry when it overturned Saturday in a river in the eastern Indian state of West Bengal .
Officials say about 50 passengers have been rescued and sent to the hospital .
Dozens of others were missing .
Authorities say the boat 's maximum capacity was 60 people , but it was badly overloaded .
Officials say most of the passengers were Muslims returning to the town of Kakdwip after attending a religious festival .
Taiwan has asked internet search company Google to stop calling it a province of China on its maps .
A Taiwan foreign ministry spokesman said Tuesday that the ministry has asked Google to correct the description .
Taiwan says it is a sovereign , independent state officially called the Republic of China .
China views Taiwan as a breakaway province and has threatened to attack the island if it pushes for formal statehood .
The two split in a civil war that ended in 1949 .
A new public opinion poll indicates Americans are becoming increasingly dissatisfied with the course of the war in Iraq .
In a poll conducted by CNN , USA Today , and the Gallup organization , one-third of those surveyed said the United States should withdraw all troops from Iraq .
That is the highest percentage calling for a full withdrawal since Gallup began asking the question in August 2003 .
The poll of 1004 adults , taken Friday through Sunday , also found that 57 percent of Americans feel the war has made them " less safe " from terrorism .
Fifty-four percent of those surveyed said the United States made a mistake in sending troops to Iraq , up from 46 percent in July .
President Bush 's overall approval rating was 45 percent , among the lowest ratings of his presidency .
Venezuela 's President Hugo Chavez has begun a three-day visit to Syria by announcing that the two countries are united against what he called " U.S. imperialism . "
Mr. Chavez and Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad met Wednesday in Damascus to discuss bilateral cooperation .
Mr. Al-Assad stressed that the two countries have very close positions on international issues .
Support for Mr. Chavez in the Arab world has soared since Venezuela withdrew its ambassador to Israel at the start of the Israeli military offensive in Lebanon .
The Venezuelan president called Israel 's attacks against Hezbollah " genocide . "
In response , Israel recalled its own ambassador from Venezuela .
Mr. Chavez has accused Washington of plotting against him and his government , something U.S. officials deny .
Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian has resigned as head of his Democratic Progressive Party , after the party and its allies suffered a major defeat in Saturday 's parliamentary election .
An opposition alliance , led by the Nationalists , won 114 seats in the 225-member chamber .
Mr. Chen 's coalition won 101 seats .
Mr. Chen told reporters
Tuesday that he takes full blame for the coalition 's defeat and will leave his party leadership post as a result .
Observers say the election deals a setback to President Chen 's drive to move Taiwan toward an identity apart from mainland China .
China considers Taiwan a renegade province and has threatened to seize the island by force if it makes moves toward independence .
Police in the Nepalese capital , Kathmandu , have used batons to disperse student protesters who are demanding that their jailed leaders be released .
Witnesses say students retaliated by throwing bricks at police .
At least six demonstrators were injured during Monday 's skirmishes .
The student leaders were jailed for staging demonstrations against King Gyanendra 's seizure of absolute power , and for demanding the restoration of democracy .
The king says he needed to seize full political power to curb corruption and quell a Maoist insurgency that has claimed more than 11,000 lives .
The rebels , who claim to be inspired by Chinese revolutionary Mao Zedong , have been fighting since 1996 to replace the constitutional monarchy in the world 's only Hindu kingdom with a communist state .
Israeli forces have killed three Palestinians Thursday as they pressed on with a three-week offensive in the Gaza Strip .
Palestinian officials say Israeli air strikes on the Maghazi refugee camp in central Gaza killed two people today .
Another Palestinian was killed during fighting between Israel and militants in the camp .
At least 100 Palestinians have been killed since Israel 's Gaza offensive began in late June .
At United Nations headquarters in New York today , Secretary-General Kofi Annan called for an immediate ceasefire in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict .
He said the international community must address the Israeli-Palestinian issue boldly .
Israel began its offensive in Gaza after militants captured an Israeli soldier ( Corporal Gilad Shalit ) in a cross-border raid .
It says it will continue the operation until the soldier is released and Palestinian militants stop firing rockets at Israel from Gaza .
A new report issued by the South African government indicates more than six million people in the country are HIV-positive , a much higher figure than previously thought .
The Department of Health says a study of women at pre-natal clinics in 2004 suggests that about six and a half million South Africans carry the virus that causes AIDS .
The figures are in marked contrast to a study earlier this year by the State Statistical Agency , which estimated that about four and a half million South Africans are infected with HIV .
Business Day newspaper quotes the Health Department 's head of health monitoring and evaluation , Lindy Makubalo as saying the variation in estimates is due to differences in methodology .
She says the Health Department follows methodology developed by the United Nations .
The Venezuelan government says it is investigating allegations that some members of the navy passed state secrets to the U.S. Defense Department .
Venezuelan Vice President Jose Vicente Rangel says some low-level officials were caught passing information to the Pentagon .
He said some suspects have been detained and that others have left the country .
The suspects include active and retired members of Venezuela 's navy .
Venezuelan authorities also allege U.S. Embassy involvement in the affair .
The attorney for one suspect told reporters a U.S. naval attache has been mentioned as a possible link between the Venezuelan officers and United States .
U.S. officials say they have not been contacted by the Venezuelan government about the matter .
The U.S. ambassador in Caracas , William Brownfield , told local media that when the Venezuelan government presents the U.S. with notification , officials will respond .
The central African nation of Chad has asked the African Union to condemn Sudan for its alleged support of Chadian rebels .
Chad 's president , Idriss Deby , made the appeal Tuesday during a meeting with Nigerian President and AU chairman Olesgun Obasanjo at his residence outside Lagos .
Chad says Sudan harbors and supports the anti-Deby rebels who attacked the eastern Chadian town of Adre earlier this month .
Sudan has denied the accusations .
Earlier , President Deby accused Sudan of planning another attack , saying the Sudanese military has deployed 50 armored vehicles to the town of Geneina near the Chad-Sudan border .
He said Sudan 's actions could destabilize other states in the region , including the Central African Republic .
The African Union has sent delegations to both countries ' capitals in an effort to defuse the rising tensions .
Flash floods sweeping through parts of Kenya have killed at least 20 people and left thousands of others homeless .
The floods are the result of torrential rains that have eased Kenya 's long drought but are making life miserable for people who live near rivers and in flood-prone areas .
The Kenyan Red Cross says some 30,000 people are in need of relief aid after water washed away homes , killed livestock , and destroyed crops .
The hardest-hit areas appear to be in western Rift Valley province .
Kenyan newspapers report deaths and especially heavy flooding in the Turkana East area and in the southwestern villages of Rongai , Marigat , and Mogotio .
Relief agencies and Kenyan officials say the number of casualties may rise as the rains are expected to continue for days or weeks to come .
The leader of the Palestinian Islamist group Hamas is warning of a new uprising against Israel if an agreement for a Palestinian state is not reached in six months .
In Egypt Saturday , Khaled Meshaal said Western nations should help negotiate a Palestinian state based on borders that existed before the 1967 Middle East War .
He said Palestinians and Arab states agree on the borders which would include the West Bank and Gaza Strip in a future Palestinian state .
Israel rejects the pre-war borders as the basis for a peace settlement .
Meshaal has been meeting Egyptian officials in Cairo to discuss forming a Palestinian unity government .
They also are discussing negotiations for the release of an Israeli soldier kidnapped by Hamas militants .
Egyptian mediators are to fly to Israel for talks in the coming days .
Israel 's Defense minister says Israeli troops will withdraw from Palestinian cities for 72 hours during January 's Palestinian presidential election .
Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz says troops will be absent from cities in the Palestinian territories from the day before the vote through the day after to help ensure the election goes smoothly .
Earlier , Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said any talks with Palestinian leaders depend on whether they can stop militant attacks such as the huge explosion in Gaza Sunday that killed five Israeli soldiers and wounded five others .
Mr. Sharon said Monday Israel wants to move toward peace , but sees no corresponding movement by the Palestinian side .
Two Palestinian militant groups , Hamas and the Fatah Hawks , have claimed responsibility for detonating more than a ton of explosives in a tunnel beneath an Israeli army post .
Bolivian President Carlos Mesa , who submitted his resignation Monday , has urged Congress to hold new elections as soon as possible to end weeks violent protests .
Mr. Mesa 's late night televised address came after tens of thousands of peasants and miners marched in La Paz Tuesday , demanding nationalization of the country 's oil and gas industry .
The president offered to resign late Monday in the wake of the growing unrest , saying he could no longer lead the poor Andean nation .
Bolivia 's Congress is expected to consider his offer to resign this week .
His offer to step down earlier this year was rejected by lawmakers .
Politicians , foreign troops and aid workers are all working in Sri Lanka 's tsunami ravaged areas to get the rebuilding effort into full swing .
A few dozen of the roughly 600 U.S. military personnel in Sri Lanka , are here at a primary middle school outside Galle .
They are using bulldozers , dump trucks and sometimes sledge hammers to demolish school buildings left structurally unsound by the tsunami .
In other parts of the area , U.S. Navy Seabees ( engineers and construction workers ) are distributing fresh water to camps for people left homeless .
Politicians , including the prime minister and the former prime minister , are also doing the rounds on visits similar to campaign stops , suggesting the tsunami and its aftermath may be political fodder for some time to come .
At least 13 people have been wounded by a powerful explosion near an Indian military camp in Srinagar , summer capital of Indian Kashmir .
Witnesses say at least five Indian soldiers were among the injured .
Police say the blast was caused by a car bomb .
It is unclear who carried out Tuesday 's attack .
Kashmir is divided between India and Pakistan , and rebel groups have been fighting for the region 's independence from India , or its merger with Pakistan , since 1989 .
The explosion came hours after top diplomats from India and Pakistan resumed peace talks in New Delhi .
Syria has dismissed as FALSE and " completely political " a United Nations report linking some of its top intelligence officials to the February assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
U.N. investigator Detlev Mehlis issued a 54-page report Thursday , saying the assassination was planned over many months .
It implicates , among others , Syria 's military intelligence chief Asef Shawkat , who is the brother-in-law of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad .
In Beirut , anti-Syrian legislators hailed the findings and renewed their calls for Lebanese President Emile Lahoud - a close ally of Syria - to resign .
Mr. Mehlis ' report says President Lahoud received a telephone call from a suspect in Mr. Hariri 's assassination shortly before it occurred .
The president 's office has denied the accusation and says he has no intention of stepping down .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan has extended the investigation until December 15 .
Afghan soldiers stormed the Pul-i-Charki prison near Kabul Friday , ending a day-long crisis that began with an attempted escape .
At least four prisoners and four guards were killed , and several others wounded .
The head of the prison said four inmates linked to the al-Qaida terrorist network , one Iraqi and three Pakistanis , overpowered and killed a prison guard and seized his weapon .
They killed three other guards and , in the ensuing battle , two of the would-be escapees were killed .
The other two were eventually overpowered and killed when army troops stormed the prison about nightfall Friday .
The prison holds common criminals as well as terror suspects and is separate from US-run facilities that hold captured Taliban and al-Qaida fighters .
Some 200 soldiers and civilians working for the military battled the thin Afghan mountain air , a bumpy track and the threat of attack to run five long laps around the airstrip at Firebase Ripley , a remote military camp in central Uruzgan province .
In the end , First Lieutenant Mike Baskin beat the competition , running the course in three hours , 12 minutes and 15 seconds .
Bursting into tears at the finish line , the Army lieutenant said he thought only of his fallen comrades as he crossed the finish line .
Soldiers at the base are operating in one of Afghanistan 's most hostile areas .
Their most recent casualties were suffered last month when two soldiers were killed by a bomb that ripped through a patrol .
Tropical Storm Beta appears to have bypassed the Colombian island of San Andres , but forecasters say it could strengthen into a hurricane as it approaches the island of Providencia .
The National Weather Service says a hurricane warning is in effect for the Colombian island of Providencia , off the coast of Nicaragua .
Beta is currently some 80 kilometers northeast of San Andres , moving north at about seven kilometers per hour .
The storm is expected to turn northwest and strengthen , possibly to hurricane strength , during the next 24 hours .
Forecasters say the center of the storm could reach mainland Nicaragua by Sunday .
Beta is expected to dump as much as 38 centimeters of rain across Honduras , Nicaragua , San Andres and Providencia .
A trial opened Thursday for at least 25 Shi'ite activists who are accused of plotting to overthrow the government .
The suspects face charges that include " forming an illegal organization " and " resorting to terrorism . "
They have pleaded not guilty to the charges and complained of alleged torture while in detention .
Security was heightened in the courtroom .
The trial could raise tensions between Bahrain 's Sunni-dominant government and members of its Shi'ite majority who have long complained about a lack of government representation .
The country 's main Shi'ite Muslim political bloc did make inroads in Saturday 's parliamentary elections , with all 18 of its candidates winning seats in the 40-member parliament .
The wins reflect a one-seat gain for the al-Wefaq bloc , compared to results from the last poll in 2006 .
President Bush has repeated his call for Congress to make his tax cuts permanent , saying they have improved the economy .
As many Americans prepare to file their annual tax payments before Monday 's deadline , President Bush said on U.S. radio Saturday that Americans will once again keep more of their earnings because of tax cuts passed in 2001 and 2003 .
He said his tax relief program has helped create new jobs that have brought the unemployment rate down to 4.7 percent .
Congress has been discussing whether to renew some of the tax cuts that are set to expire in the next few years .
Many Democrats argue that the tax cuts are irresponsible in light of the costs of the war in Iraq and other pressing issues .
Every year since 1995 , the United States Botanic Garden in Washington , DC , has partnered with the Smithsonian Institution to stage a massive floral exhibit of orchids .
VOA 's George Dwyer reports it offers visitors a colorful splash of floral brilliance as spring approached in the nation 's capital .
Jim Bertel narrates .
Police in Bangladesh say unidentified gunmen have killed a journalist working for an English-language daily .
Police say the attack on Shahid Anwar , an assistant editor of the Daily Asian Express , occurred late Sunday in the capital , Dhaka .
Police say personal rivalry might have been the motive behind his killing .
Mr. Anwar is the second journalist killed in Bangladesh in recent weeks .
Last month , an editor of the Daily Durjoy Bangla newspaper in the northern Bogra district was killed under similar circumstances .
The international media watchdog , Reporters Without Borders , has ranked Bangladesh one of the most dangerous countries for journalists .
Thai authorities say suspected Muslim militants have carried out at least 40 bomb and arson attacks in Thailand 's Muslim-dominated southern provinces .
Police say at least two people were injured in the attacks , which took place late Tuesday in the provinces of Pattani , Yala and Narathiwat .
They say the most serious attack was a fire set at a rubber factory .
The French news agency quotes the region 's top military official as saying the situation is under control and that six suspects have been arrested .
More than 1,400 people have been killed during two years of unrest in Thailand 's Muslim-majority provinces .
A Chinese demographer has said the imbalance between births of girls and boys may one day make it impossible for millions of Chinese men to find a spouse .
On Saturday , China 's official news agency quoted Professor Mu Guangzhong , of the Beijing University population research institute , as saying by the year 2020 , 25 million men will fail to have wives if the current gender imbalance continues .
In China , official policy restricts couples in urban areas to one child , and families have shown a preference for sons .
There are 119 boys born for every 100 Chinese girls .
Chinese lawmakers decided in June not to outlaw the practice of performing abortions based on the gender of the fetus .
But Xinhua says the new report is likely to prompt the government to take more forceful measures to reverse the male dominant population trend .
U.S. President Barack Obama is wishing Christians in the United States and around the world a happy Easter .
In his weekly Saturday radio and Internet address , Mr. Obama also reached out to Jewish communities , whose celebration of Passover ends next week , and to people of other faiths as well as non-believers .
Mr. Obama used his address to call attention to his administration 's top priorities - creating jobs , improving access to health care and improving education in the U.S.
He said he was heartened at statistics showing an increase in new jobs created lasted month .
But his address mostly focused on a call for unity , saying different faith communities share the " spirit of humanity . "
Within the next decade , some 77 million people in the United States will enter retirement age , and many of them are expected to offer their skills and experience to work as volunteers .
Better health , longer life-spans and a desire to give something back to society are among the reasons motivating many to volunteer .
Producer Zulima Palacio has this report narrated by Deborah Block on what is being called a " new army of volunteers " .
Vice President Dick Cheney 's chief of staff Lewis Libby is known to be a quiet but powerful force in the Bush administration .
The 55-year-old Mr. Libby helped build the case for the U.S. invasion of Iraq , arguing that Saddam Hussein 's regime had weapons of mass destruction .
No such weapons have been found .
Mr. Libby shies away from media attention , but is described by colleagues as being closely involved in everything the vice president does .
Widely known by his nickname " Scooter , " Mr. Libby is also a lawyer and a writer , who earned praise for a 1996 mystery novel he wrote .
Iraq 's President Jalal Talabani says he is willing to hold talks with insurgents and members of the ousted government , but al-Qaida in Iraq rejected any possibility of dialogue .
Speaking at a reconciliation conference in Cairo , Mr. Talabani said he would meet with any Iraqi citizen , even those he called " criminals . "
He also called on insurgents to disarm and join the political process .
But al-Qaida in Iraq claimed in an Internet statement that it would continue launching attacks .
In new violence Monday , at least four Iraqis were killed and 10 others wounded in a car bomb explosion in Kanan , a town north of Baghdad .
Police say the bomb was apparently aimed at a passing U.S. military convoy .
Meanwhile , a White House spokesman Trent Duffy says it is " highly unlikely " Abu Musab al-Zarqawi was killed in a raid Saturday , as some reports have said .
Witnesses say Israeli helicopters fired missiles into Gaza shortly after Palestinian militants killed five Israelis at a busy crossing between Israel and the Gaza Strip .
The witnesses say two Israeli missiles hit the Deir al Balah refugee camp .
They say the target was a building belonging to a charity linked to a militant group .
An hour earlier , Hamas , al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades and the Popular Resistance Committee carried out the attack at the Karni crossing .
Three Palestinians were killed in the bomb attack .
The upsurge in violence comes as newly-elected Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas again called for attacks on Israelis to stop .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon , who is expected to meet with Mr. Abbas within days , insists peace negotiations can not be revived unless Palestinians crack down on militants .
All 20 people aboard a Sudanese military plane were killed when it crashed on landing in southern Sudan on Saturday .
Officials with Sudan 's military say the plane blew a tire when it touched down , causing it to swerve off the runway and explode .
The accident happened Saturday morning in the town of Aweil , 800 kilometers southwest of Khartoum .
There were seven crew members and 13 passengers on the plane .
Iraqi National Guard troops have raided a Sunni mosque in Baghdad .
Reports say about 200 national guardsmen stormed the al-Hanifa mosque Friday , following weekly prayers , throwing stun grenades and firing shots in the air .
Casualties were reported during the fighting inside the mosque .
The purpose of the raid was not immediately clear , but worshippers say the Iraqi troops arrested the mosque 's imam .
Meanwhile , the top commander of U.S. Marines in Iraq says U.S. and Iraqi troops have " broken the back " of the insurgency there by taking control of Fallujah .
Lieutenant General John Sattler said the 11-day operation has pushed the insurgents out of their safe haven and into less familiar areas .
But he said Fallujah is not quite secure yet .
Iran has given reporters a rare glimpse into a key nuclear plant that the United States and Europe want permanently closed .
Some 50 reporters accompanied President Mohammad Khatami Wednesday , on a tour of the Natanz uranium enrichment facility south of Tehran .
They were shown a vast , empty underground hall that Iranian officials said is designed to house thousands of enrichment centrifuges .
Outside , dozens of anti-aircraft weapons guarded the facility .
Officials said all enrichment activities have been suspended at the site , which the International Atomic Energy Agency regularly monitors .
The tour was to continue later in the day at a uranium conversion plant near Isfahan .
The United States and Europe want Iran to permanently stop enriching uranium - which in certain forms can be used to fuel nuclear weapons .
But Iran says it is only pursuing the technology to produce electricity .
Two Burmese ethnic rebel groups are supporting a call for the United Nations Security Council to take up an urgent initiative to bring political reforms to military-ruled Burma .
In separate press releases Sunday , the Karen National Union and the Shan Democratic Union backed a report by former Czech President Vaclav Havel and retired South African Archbishop Desmond Tutu calling for Security Council intervention .
Mr. Havel and Archbishop Tutu issued a report Tuesday comparing the situation in Burma to those in seven other countries in which the Security Council had intervened .
The 70-page report said conditions are far worse in Burma than they were in such countries as Sierra Leone , Afghanistan and Haiti before UN intervention .
U.S.-led coalition forces in Afghanistan say coalition aircraft bombed a Taleban stronghold in southern Kandahar province overnight , killing 80 suspected Taleban militants and 16 civilians .
Kandahar Governor Asadullah Khalid said Monday that besides the militants , 16 civilians were killed and at least another 15 were wounded .
The coalition says it is investigating the reports of civilian casualties .
A coalition spokeswoman , Lieutenant Tamara Lawrence , said the village of Azizi in the Panjwayi district area is a known Taleban stronghold about 50 kilometers west of Kandahar 's provincial capital .
Meanwhile , Afghan police on Monday found the body of a missing former provincial governor .
Armed men snatched Paktika province 's former governor , Mohammad Ali Jalali , along with the former police chief of the same province on Sunday while they were attending a prayer service in neighboring Ghazni province .
The police chief was released unharmed .
U.S. officials have asked the Palestinian leadership to require parliamentary candidates to renounce violence if they want to run in upcoming elections .
The issue is expected to be discussed when President Bush meets Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas at the White House Thursday .
U.S. and Palestinian officials say the Bush administration is concerned that Palestinian militant groups , who have a history of attacks on Israelis , will do well in the January vote .
On Tuesday , White House spokesman Scott McClellan said there is more the Palestinian leadership can do to end violence and dismantle terrorist organizations .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon , whose government recently withdrew settlements from the Gaza Strip and parts of the West Bank , has said participation in the election by militant groups such as Hamas would be unacceptable .
Cambodian soldiers are heading to Sudan to support a United Nations landmine clearing operation .
About 109 soldiers are leaving the capital , Phnom Penh , Saturday for the northeast African nation , joining 26 other Cambodians already there .
Prime Minister Hun Sen has hailed the mission as historic and a great honor .
It is Cambodia 's first time taking part in a U.N. peacekeeping mission .
The United Nations estimates up to 20,000 people are killed or maimed by landmines worldwide every year and that at least one-fifth of the victims are children .
Nearly three decades of civil war , which ended in the 1990s , left Cambodia as one of the worst mine-affected countries .
Rival clans in southern Somalia have clashed in a fight for control over a trading town , and witnesses report dozens of deaths and injuries .
Residents say more than 20 people were killed and 30 injured in the battle that began late Friday night in a town identified by Reuters news agency as Ceel Waaq near the Kenyan border .
The town is described as a center of commercial activity .
Warlords have ruled Somalia since dictator Mohamed Siad Barre was ousted in 1991 .
Israel 's government is urging Israelis visiting Egypt 's Sinai peninsula to leave immediately because of what it calls an imminent terrorist attack .
Israel 's anti-terrorism office says it has " concrete " evidence of a plot to kidnap Israelis in the Sinai and smuggle them to the Gaza Strip .
Israeli officials called on family members to contact Israelis vacationing on the peninsula and ask them to return to Israel right away .
Some 20,000 Israelis traveled to the Sinai during the recent Jewish Passover holiday , despite prior Israeli warnings of possible terrorist attacks there .
Many vacationers have since returned to Israel .
The Sinai has been the scene of terrorist attacks on Israelis and Western tourists .
In 2004 , suicide bombers attacked a Sinai hotel and several campsites popular with Israelis , killing 34 people and wounding more than 120 .
Afghan officials say 10 Taliban militants have been arrested for an acid attack on schoolgirls and teachers in southern Afghanistan .
Officials say militants on motorbikes attacked the girls and teachers as they walked to school in the southern city of Kandahar earlier this month .
Several girls suffered facial burns and were hospitalized .
A Taliban spokesman earlier denied responsibility for the attack .
Under Taliban rule , girls were banned from school and were only allowed to leave the house accompanied by a male relative .
The Afghan government has accused Taliban militants of attacking dozens of schools and teachers .
Military officials in Pakistan say six soldiers and 40 militants were killed overnight in an attack on a paramilitary fort near the border with Afghanistan .
Pakistan 's military said most of the attackers came from the Afghan side of the border , and were joined by local Taliban fighters in the northwestern Mohmand tribal area , a center of Taliban and al-Qaida activity .
Security officials say gun battles raged for several hours before the attackers fled .
Officials estimate that about 600 militants took part in the attack .
Pakistani authorities say seven soldiers were wounded in the clashes , and that the paramilitary Frontier Corps inflicted heavy casualties on the militants .
Meanwhile , officials in South Waziristan say suspected militants abducted local government official Amir Latif today .
Police say gunmen stopped the official 's convoy , bundled him in their vehicle and drove off .
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf and British Prime Minister Tony Blair are holding talks today expected to be dominated by the fight against terrorism , the Middle East , Afghanistan and Kashmir .
Before the London meeting , General Musharraf told the BBC that the global war on terrorism has made the world less safe and is not addressing the social grievances that help recruit terrorists .
In a separate interview , the Times of London quotes General Musharraf as saying he would welcome British involvement in negotiations with India over Kashmir .
Before going to London , the Pakistani leader met with President Bush to review the war on terror , the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the hunt for Osama bin Laden .
A U.S.-based media advocacy group says it is concerned that constitutional reforms proposed by Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez could threaten press freedom in the country .
The Miami-based Inter American Press Association voiced concerns Tuesday after meetings with media executives and union leaders in Caracas , Venezuela .
The IAPA delegation says the proposed measures include detention without charges and controls on the news media if Mr. Chavez declares a state of emergency .
Venezuelans will vote on the reforms in a referendum December 2 .
The proposal also includes eliminating presidential term limits .
The country 's opposition parties , human rights groups and the Roman Catholic Church have condemned Mr. Chavez 's proposals .
Two powerful explosions have ripped apart a vehicle belonging to a prominent Venezuela prosecutor .
Witnesses say the two blasts destroyed Deputy Attorney General Danilo Anderson 's truck as it drove through a neighborhood in western Caracas late Thursday .
Venezuelan officials say investigators are trying to determine if the charred body found inside the vehicle is Mr. Anderson .
Mr. Anderson was preparing a case against nearly 400 people allegedly involved in the April 2002 rebellion that briefly ousted populist president Hugo Chavez .
President Bush and other world leaders are welcoming the formation of an Iraqi government , months after the country 's parliamentary elections .
Mr. Bush issued a statement Saturday saying Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki 's government marks the end of Iraq 's difficult and inspiring democratic transitional process .
Mr. Bush added that the United States and freedom-loving nations will stand with Iraq as it takes its place among the world 's democracies .
British Prime Minister Tony Blair called the new government a huge step forward .
Italian officials also congratulated Iraq on its new government .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan praised Iraqis for their determination in forming a government despite violence across the country .
In a written statement , he voiced hope the government will quickly address crucial issues , including security , reconstruction and the respect of human rights .
Italy has a diversified industrial economy , which is divided into a developed industrial north , dominated by private companies , and a less-developed , welfare-dependent , agricultural south , with high unemployment .
The Italian economy is driven in large part by the manufacture of high-quality consumer goods produced by small and medium-sized enterprises , many of them family owned .
Italy also has a sizable underground economy , which by some estimates accounts for as much as 15 % of GDP .
These activities are most common within the agriculture , construction , and service sectors .
Italy has moved slowly on implementing needed structural reforms , such as reducing graft , overhauling costly entitlement programs , and increasing employment opportunities for young workers , particularly women .
The international financial crisis worsened conditions in Italy 's labor market , with unemployment rising from 6.2 % in 2007 to 8.4 % in 2010 , but in the longer-term Italy 's low fertility rate and quota-driven immigration policies will increasingly strain its economy .
A rise in exports and investment driven by the global economic recovery nevertheless helped the economy grow by about 1 % in 2010 following a 5 % contraction in 2009 .
The Italian government has struggled to limit government spending , but Italy 's exceedingly high public debt remains above 115 % of GDP , and its fiscal deficit - just 1.5 % of GDP in 2007 - exceeded 5 % in 2009 and 4 % in 2010 , as the costs of servicing the country 's debt rose .
Settled as early as 1000 B.C. , Samoa was " discovered " by European explorers in the 18th century .
International rivalries in the latter half of the 19th century were settled by an 1899 treaty in which Germany and the US divided the Samoan archipelago .
The US formally occupied its portion - a smaller group of eastern islands with the excellent harbor of Pago Pago - the following year .
French Togoland became Togo in 1960 .
Gen. Gnassingbe EYADEMA , installed as military ruler in 1967 , ruled Togo with a heavy hand for almost four decades .
Despite the facade of multiparty elections instituted in the early 1990s , the government was largely dominated by President EYADEMA , whose Rally of the Togolese People ( RPT ) party has maintained power almost continually since 1967 and maintains a majority of seats in today 's legislature .
Upon EYADEMA 's death in February 2005 , the military installed the president 's son , Faure GNASSINGBE , and then engineered his formal election two months later .
Democratic gains since then allowed Togo to hold its first relatively free and fair legislative elections in October 2007 .
After years of political unrest and condemnation from international organizations for human rights abuses , Togo is finally being re-welcomed into the international community .
The Norwegian economy is a prosperous bastion of welfare capitalism , featuring a combination of free market activity and government intervention .
The government controls key areas , such as the vital petroleum sector , through large-scale state-majority-owned enterprises .
The country is richly endowed with natural resources - petroleum , hydropower , fish , forests , and minerals - and is highly dependent on the petroleum sector , which accounts for nearly half of exports and over 30 % of state revenue .
Norway is the world 's second-largest gas exporter ; its position as an oil exporter has slipped to ninth-largest as production has begun to decline .
Norway opted to stay out of the EU during a referendum in November 1994 ; nonetheless , as a member of the European Economic Area , it contributes sizably to the EU budget .
In anticipation of eventual declines in oil and gas production , Norway saves state revenue from the petroleum sector in the world 's second largest sovereign wealth fund , valued at over $ 500 billion in 2010 .
After solid GDP growth in 2004 - 7 , the economy slowed in 2008 , and contracted in 2009 , before returning to positive growth in 2010 .
A lengthy struggle between France and Great Britain for the islands ended in 1814 , when they were ceded to the latter .
Independence came in 1976 .
Socialist rule was brought to a close with a new constitution and free elections in 1993 .
President France-Albert RENE , who had served since 1977 , was re-elected in 2001 , but stepped down in 2004 .
Vice President James MICHEL took over the presidency and in July 2006 was elected to a new five-year term .
A MAN had two daughters , the one married to a gardener , and the other to a tile-maker .
After a time he went to the daughter who had married the gardener , and inquired how she was and how all things went with her .
She said , " All things are prospering with me , and I have only one wish , that there may be a heavy fall of rain , in order that the plants may be well watered . "
Not long after , he went to the daughter who had married the tilemaker , and likewise inquired of her how she fared ; she replied , " I want for nothing , and have only one wish , that the dry weather may continue , and the sun shine hot and bright , so that the bricks might be dried . "
He said to her , " If your sister wishes for rain , and you for dry weather , with which of the two am I to join my wishes ? '
A MAN to Whom Time Was Money , and who was bolting his breakfast in order to catch a train , had leaned his newspaper against the sugar-bowl and was reading as he ate .
In his haste and abstraction he stuck a pickle-fork into his right eye , and on removing the fork the eye came with it .
In buying spectacles the needless outlay for the right lens soon reduced him to poverty , and the Man to Whom Time Was Money had to sustain life by fishing from the end of a wharf .
A noted biologist , who had been studying little green frogs in a swamp , was stumped .
The frog population , despite efforts at predator control , was declining at an alarming rate .
A chemist at a nearby college came up with a solution :
The frogs , due to a chemical change in the swamp water , simply could n't stay coupled long enough to reproduce successfully .
The chemist then brewed up a new adhesive to assist the frogs ' togetherness , which included one part sodium .
It seems the little green frogs needed some monosodium glue to mate .
The Taliban has claimed responsibility for a roadside bombing in Afghanistan that killed the son of the new Dutch military commander .
Lieutenant Dennis van Uhm was one of two soldiers killed in the attack Friday .
His father , General Peter van Uhm , took command of the Dutch military on Thursday .
The Associated Press quotes a Taliban spokesman as saying van Uhm was specifically targeted because he was a high-profile soldier .
The Dutch government rejects the claim , saying there is no indication that van Uhm was personally targeted .
The roadside bombing took place north of the Dutch military base in the southern province of Uruzgan .
Also today , three Afghan civilians died in a roadside blast in Logar province , south of the capital , Kabul .
The U.S. ambassador to Iraq says the United States may cut funding for Iraq 's police because of their failure to punish those responsible for torture .
Zalmay Khalilzad said in an interview with The New York Times newspaper that U.S. officials are reviewing some programs because of a U.S. law that bans funding security forces that violate human rights .
But Khalilzad says he hopes Iraqi Interior Minister Jawad al-Bolani does punish those responsible to keep the funding .
Earlier this month , a special United Nations investigator said torture in Iraq may be worse now than it was when Saddam Hussein was in power .
He called the situation out of hand and said he examined reports of torture at official Iraqi detention centers and by private militias .
A poll taken by a major Japanese newspaper shows overwhelming support for a change in the law to allow a woman to succeed to the throne .
The Tokyo Shimbun said Sunday that 84 percent of its poll respondents approved of the idea that an empress could rule Japan .
It said only six percent of respondents said succession should be limited to males .
Under Japanese law , only males who have emperors on their father 's side can succeed to the throne .
The question of succession to the throne , now occupied by 71-year-old Emperor Akihito , is gaining urgency because no boys have been born into the Imperial household for 40 years .
The French government has condemned remarks by a top Vatican official linking the pedophile scandal in the Catholic Church to homosexuality .
French Foreign Ministry spokesman Bernard Valero Wednesday said the remarks linking the abuse to homosexuality was " unacceptable . "
He said France is committed to the struggle against discrimination and prejudice linked to sexual orientation and gender identity .
Gay rights groups also condemned the remarks by Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone .
The top aide to Pope Benedict sparked a furor Monday when he said that homosexuality and not the priestly vow of celibacy is the cause of widespread sex abuse of children by the Catholic clergy .
In statement Wednesday , Vatican spokesman Federico Lombardi said that Bertone did not refer to the society at large , but only to the data gathered by Vatican investigators .
Critics have accused Pope Benedict and other church leaders of protecting abusive priests and attempting to cover up the scandal .
Officials in Ecuador say Venezuela is to help them build a $ 5 billion oil refinery that will become operational in 2012 .
Oil Minister Galo Chiriboga said Thursday the refinery will initially process Ecuadorean crude , but when supplies are depleted , Venezuelan crude will be used .
The facility will have the capacity to refine 3,00,000 barrels of oil daily .
The minister says a logistics study for the project should be concluded by June and that it is a way of promoting Latin American investment in refineries .
Ecuador is capable of producing more than 5,00,000 barrels of crude oil a day , but has no refining facilities and must import gasoline .
Ecuador is the fifth largest oil producer in South America .
The country rejoined the OPEC cartel last month after a 15-year break Venezuela is the only other Latin American country in OPEC .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez says his government will amend a controversial new intelligence law that human rights groups say could silence his critics .
Mr. Chavez told supporters Saturday that his government will soon correct what he called " mistakes " in the law .
The new law replaces Venezuela 's two main intelligence services with new agencies overseen by Mr. Chavez .
It requires Venezuelans to act as informants to secret police and community monitoring groups loyal to the president .
Anyone who refuses to provide information faces two to six years in prison .
Human rights advocates and legal scholars have condemned the measure , saying it will force people to report on their neighbors to avoid prison terms .
Mr. Chavez says the law is intended to protect national security and combat U.S. interference .
U.S. experts say sediment left by receding floodwaters in New Orleans is contaminated and could pose health risks to returning residents .
The Environmental Protection Agency said Friday that recent test samples from storm debris and soil revealed high levels of bacteria and fuel oil .
Officials warned people to avoid contact with the contaminated materials .
U.S. experts had previously reported high levels of bacteria in the floodwaters of New Orleans .
As sediment dries , they plan to conduct air sampling and assess other exposure risks .
Oil spills have been reported in New Orleans and many parts of Louisiana 's southeastern coast .
The U.S. Coast Guard has counted more than 40 spills from refineries , storage depots and other facilities .
The spills range in size from several hundred liters to 15 million liters .
At least six Iraqis have been killed in clashes in the cities of Samarra and Ramadi , as pre-election violence continues virtually unabated .
Hospital officials say clashes near a U.S. military base west of Baghdad in Ramadi Wednesday killed two people .
And Iraqi police say gunmen attacked a police station in Samarra , north of the capital , killing at least four people .
Meanwhile , in neighboring Kuwait , U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld spoke to American troops at Camp Buehring preparing to go to Iraq .
Soldiers told Mr. Rumsfeld they are concerned about the lack of adequate armor on some vehicles and about their long deployments .
Mr. Rumsfeld said production of armored metal has been stepped up , but he said " you go to war with the army you have . "
The number of American combat deaths in Iraq reached 1,000 on Tuesday
Indian police say they have arrested a top militant commander blamed for dozens of attacks and tourist killings in Indian Kashmir .
Authorities said Saturday that Mudasir Gujri was arrested in Jammu - Kashmir , India 's only Muslim majority state .
State police chief Gopal Sharma told a news conference that Mudasir is believed to be the main planner of Lashkar-e-Toiba , a Pakistan-based Kashmiri militant group , and the mastermind behind at least 25 recent attacks .
The police chief called the arrest a great setback to the militants , but added that once one terror cell is defeated , " another one comes up . "
Indian officials have said they suspect last week 's railway attacks in Mumbai that killed nearly 200 people were carried out by Lashkar-e-Toiba .
The group , which is fighting Indian rule in Kashmir , has denied involvement .
Burma 's military government has rejected a U.S. State Department report that slams Burma for restricting religious activities .
The annual report was issued earlier this month and lists countries , including Burma , Iran and China , as nations " engaged in or tolerating particularly severe violations of religious freedom . "
Burma 's Foreign Ministry said Saturday that the allegations were politically motivated and unjustified .
It said no serious problems exist among religious groups in Burma .
Burma is overwhelmingly Buddhist , with small minorities of Christians , Muslims , Hindus and animists .
It has long been criticized by rights groups and countries , including the United States , for its human rights record .
The State Department report is meant to help U.S. officials shape policy , conduct diplomacy and decide whether to help private groups promoting religious freedom in their countries .
The U.S. nominee to head the World Bank has hailed what he calls a " new generation " of African leaders , and has promised to build stronger partnerships with African countries .
As he wrapped up a four-day tour of the continent in South Africa , Robert Zoellick said African leaders are taking responsibility for their countries in dealing with issues including energy , employment , investment and infrastructure .
Zoellick said if he is appointed president of the World Bank , he will focus on stronger partnerships with African countries to help with their individual strategies for development and growth .
Zoellick met with African leaders in Ghana , Ethiopia and South Africa on this week 's tour .
He is scheduled to visit Europe , Mexico and Brazil before returning to the United States .
Zoellick is expected to be confirmed as World Bank president next month .
Americans Andy Roddick and James Blake , along with Jarkko Nieminen of Finland have won warm-up events for the Australian Open - the first Grand Slam tennis event of the year .
Roddick beat German Tommy Haas in straight sets ( 06-Mar , 07-Jun ) Saturday at an exhibition tournament in Melbourne , which will host the Australian Open starting Monday .
Eighth seed Blake needed three sets to get by unseeded Russian Igor Andreev ( 06-Feb , 03-Jun , 07-Jun ) in the finals of the Sydney International tournament .
Seventh seed Nieminen broke a six-year title drought when he beat fifth seed Mario Ancic of Croatia in straight sets ( 06-Feb , 06-Feb ) at the Heineken Open in Auckland , New Zealand .
South Korean diplomats held face-to-face talks Friday with Taleban militants who have been holding 21 South Korean hostages for three weeks .
Taleban spokesman Yousef Ahmadi says two of its negotiators attended the talks in eastern Ghazni City .
Earlier , the Afghan government guaranteed safe passage for the Taleban representatives .
Negotiations had earlier been stalled over where to hold the meeting .
The talks are seen as one of the last diplomatic efforts to secure the release of the hostages .
A total of 23 South Koreans were abducted by Taleban militants on July 19 while traveling through Ghazni province .
The kidnappers have already executed two male hostages .
The captors have repeatedly threatened to kill more of the South Koreans unless the Afghan government and U.S. military release Taleban prisoners .
The Afghan government has refused their demands .
China 's state-run news agency says a coal mine accident in central Henan province has killed 13 miners and left 66 missing .
Xinhua , citing the state 's work safety agency , says Tuesday 's accident took place in Pingdingshan city .
It gave no other information .
Chinese coal mines are notoriously dangerous .
Accidents killed more than 3,000 people last year
The Afghan Defense Ministry says Afghan and U.S-led forces inflicted heavy casualties on insurgents in a battle Sunday in the eastern province of Nuristan .
Neither Afghan nor U.S. military officials said how many insurgents were killed .
Afghan officials said one of their soldiers had been killed .
The military officials said there were no reports of civilian casualties .
Nuristan officials dispute that , saying at least 20 civilians died in the attack and more were wounded .
Defense Ministry officials say eight insurgents were captured , while Nuristan leaders say those detained were civilians .
The Afghan Defense Ministry is investigating the situation .
Afghan and U.S. forces undertook the operation to clear insurgents from the remote province near the Pakistani border .
Nuristan is a known stronghold of Taliban-led militants .
One Nuristan leader said the Taliban had been in the area , but left before the fighting started .
A published report in Britain says authorities believe they foiled a terrorist plot to carry out a nerve gas attack on parliament .
The Sunday Times says an al-Qaida cell in Britain carried out extensive research last year and videotaped reconnaissance in preparation for an attack on parliament and London 's subway system .
The newspaper says and internal police security document shows the alleged terrorist plot involved the use of deadly sarin gas and chemical " dirty bombs . "
British intelligence officials are reported to have used an al-Qaida informant to crack coded e-mail correspondence found in computers seized from terror suspects in Britain and Pakistan .
The Sunday Times says deciphering the code also helped authorities uncover several terrorist plots .
Police have not commented on the newspaper report .
Family , friends and residents of a small town in the U.S. state of Ohio are mourning the loss of 19 U.S. Marines - all from the same unit - killed this week in Iraq .
On Wednesday , 14 Marines from the 3rd Battalion , 25th Marines unit based in the Ohio town of Brook Park died when their vehicle hit a roadside bomb .
Five more Marines from the same unit were killed in an ambush on Monday .
The deaths have rattled the residents of the small Cleveland suburb , which has just over 20,000 residents .
Local media say almost everyone in the town knew one or more of the Marines killed in this week 's attacks .
Relatives of the Marines killed have expressed both grief and anger , some calling for President Bush to withdraw the troops from Iraq , while others say the deaths only reaffirm their support for the war .
The U.S. space shuttle Endeavouris scheduled to return to Earth Friday , following a two-week mission to service the International Space Station .
Endeavourundocked from the orbiting outpost Tuesday , beginning the long journey home that will end with a landing at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida .
Endeavour 's mission at the space station included five spacewalks , during which shuttle astronauts installed an external platform on the station 's Japanese lab , known as Kibo , or " hope . "
The platform will allow scientists to conduct experiments in the vacuum of space .
The crew also conducted maintenance work on the station .
While the shuttle was docked at the station , the outpost 's population grew to 13 - the highest number in its history .
The shuttle will be bringing back Japanese astronaut Koichi Wakata , who has been on the space station since March .
U.S. astronaut Timothy Kopra is taking his place .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai led his country 's Independence Day celebrations Sunday with a call for young Afghans to educate themselves to preserve their freedom .
Mr. Karzai told thousands of people gathered at the Kabul sports stadium that Afghanistan was still threatened by enemies , referring to the Taleban-led insurgency .
Meanwhile , Mullah Omar , the elusive Taleban leader in Afghanistan , issued a statement calling for people to join the insurgency to oust the U.S.-backed Karzai government .
Afghanistan served as a buffer between the British and Russian empires until it won independence from British control on August 19th of 1919 .
Iranian President Mohammad Khatami has marked the 26th anniversary of the Islamic revolution with a stern warning that any invaders will face what he calls a " burning hell . "
Addressing tens of thousands of Iranians Thursday in central Tehran , Mr. Khatami said the Islamic republic does not seek " war , violence or confrontation . "
Iran is facing mounting international pressure over its nuclear program , which the United States alleges is aimed at developing nuclear weapons .
President Bush says he has not ruled out the use of military force , if negotiations fail to end the threat .
Today , for a second time in two days , Mr. Khatami dismissed Mr. Bush 's comments as part of a psychological war .
Britain , France and Germany are engaged in ongoing talks with Iran aimed at persuading Tehran to end its nuclear enrichment program .
Negotiators in Geneva have reported little progress in the talks .
The center-left opposition bloc has won the lower house in Italy 's parliamentary elections by a razor-thin margin while the race for the Senate is still unclear .
Official results give the opposition 49.8 percent of the vote while Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi 's ruling conservative coalition wins 49.7 percent .
Under Italy 's new election laws , the opposition will automatically control 55 percent of the seats in the lower house .
Meanwhile , officials are giving the Berlusconi coalition a one-seat margin in the senate - 155 to 154 .
But six seats chosen by Italians voting abroad still to be counted .
A coalition must control both the senate and the lower house in order to form a government .
Prime Minister Berlusconi and Mr. Prodi have both called for new elections if neither side controls both houses .
The election came after an angry campaign full of insults by both sides .
The head of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) is assuring consumers there is no risk of catching bird flu from properly cooked food .
Dr. Lee Jong-Wook said Monday that none of the 173 confirmed bird flu cases since 2003 came from eating well-cooked poultry or eggs .
Dr. Lee says poultry products are an important source of protein and that thorough cooking kills the virus .
European poultry farmers have said they have lost millions of dollars from people giving up chickens because of bird flu fears .
French officials say 20 countries have banned French poultry since bird flu was found on a commercial turkey farm last week .
Meanwhile , the virus has spread to a third African country with Niger reporting the disease in domestic ducks .
Bird flu has also been found in Nigeria and Egypt .
In Europe , Bosnia has reported its first bird flu cases in swans .
The British pharmaceutical company GlaxoSmithKline says it could have a bird flu vaccine ready for mass production as early as next year .
In a statement issued Wednesday , the company reported a breakthrough in recent trials of the vaccine , which it says is effective against the deadly H5N1 strain .
GlaxoSmithKline said it could be ready to submit the vaccine to regulators by the end of this year .
The company said the key to its vaccine is the low concentration of active ingredient .
This would allow the vaccine to be produced on a mass scale , allowing governments to stock up on the vaccine to be used in the event of a pandemic .
Several other companies are working to develop bird flu vaccines .
In the latest bird flu outbreak , health officials in Thailand reported Wednesday that a teenage boy who died earlier this week was infected with the deadly H5N1 variety of the disease .
Germany and the United States are two of the biggest gainers in this month 's world football rankings released by the International Football Federation ( FIFA ) on Wednesday .
After an impressive performace at the Confederations Cup , Germany moved up 10 spots to 11th place overall .
The U.S. team moved up four spots to sixth in the world , its highest-ever ranking , thanks to the team 's success at the ongoing CONCACAF Gold Cup .
Brazil remains atop the rankings followed by Argentina and the Netherlands , which each moved up one spot .
The Czech Republic fell two slots to fourth place , followed by Mexico , which rose one spot to fifth .
The U.S. team is sixth , with France down two positions in seventh place .
England dropped one place to eighth , with Spain up one slot in ninth place and Portugal falling two spots to 10th place .
Officials in Somalia 's capital say at least 10 people have been killed in fighting between government troops and police .
The gunbattle broke out Saturday in the Hamarjajab district in the south of Mogadishu .
Local officials say the fighting was sparked by an argument between the police and soldiers .
At least 10 civilians were wounded in the incident .
Most of those killed are said to be soldiers .
Somalia has endured nearly 20 years of war and chaos since the fall of the last stable government in 1991 .
The country 's current government is fighting Islamist insurgent groups and controls only small sections of the capital , with the help of African Union peacekeepers .
The United Nations Security Council has expressed concern that the Central African Republic could be destabilized by continuing violence in Darfur , Sudan and escalating tensions between Sudan and Chad .
The CAR shares its northern border with Sudan to the east and Chad to the west .
Its northern region has been beset by skirmishes between government forces and rebels .
At least 33 people were killed in clashes among the groups in June .
In a report issued last week , U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan warned that the area could attract more armed groups , mercenaries and rebels trying to destabilize governments in the region .
The U.N. report also said humanitarian conditions in the country are deteriorating while human rights violations are rising .
Austria has assumed the presidency of the European Union for a six-month term .
Britain , which had held the EU leadership since July , turned over the presidency to Austria and its Chancellor Wolfgang Schuessel Sunday .
Britain led the European Union during difficult and prolonged negotiations on a new budget for the 25-member group , and also bridged deep divisions within the bloc to begin talks with Turkey on EU membership for the secular Muslim state .
During Austria 's leadership term , Chancellor Schuessel will try to revive efforts to reach agreement on a controversial European constitution .
The project was all but abandoned since French and Dutch voters rejected the charter last year .
Finland is next in line for the EU presidency after Austria 's term .
Oil prices hit a 17-month low Monday as investors worried that a global economic slowdown will cut demand for energy .
At the close of trading , the price of a barrel of oil was down less than one dollar to hit $ 63.22 .
Earlier , prices went as low as $ 61.3 .
Oil prices fell even though OPEC ( the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ) members said Friday they would cut production by more than five percent ( 1.5 million barrels per day ) .
OPEC produces about two-fifths of the world 's oil .
Iran 's OPEC governor Mohammad Ali Khatibi says the cartel will consider further production cuts to help stabilize the oil market if demand does not pick up .
Oil prices are down more than 50 percent since hitting a record high of more than $ 147 a barrel in July .
The U.S. State Department says it is concerned by the continued repression of academic freedom in Iran .
A U.S. spokesman says that in recent months , dozens of Iranian students have been detained , professors have been replaced , and freedom of expression has been severely curtailed on university campuses in Iran .
A statement released Friday says the families of the detained men and women have not been allowed to communicate with their loved ones .
It calls on the Iranian government to release the detainees and to guarantee fundamental freedoms for all citizens .
The State Department says the abuses have taken place since September , when Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said in a speech in New York that universities should be places where the freedoms of expression and conscience flourish .
The U.S. Justice Department will seek to dismiss at least 180 cases brought by detainees held at the U.S. military 's detention center at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
The prisoners ' lawsuits challenge the legality of their confinement at the prison .
Justice Department officials notified judges presiding over the cases at the U.S. District Court in Washington that official motions to dismiss the lawsuits will be filed .
Legislation signed by President Bush last week curbs U.S. civilian courts ' abilities to hear detainees ' cases .
About 500 prisoners are held at Guantanamo , most of them captured in Afghanistan on suspicion of ties to the Taleban or al-Qaida .
Supporters of Pakistan 's main religion-based parties have marched in the capital , Islamabad , to protest a nationwide crackdown on suspected Islamic militants .
More than 1,000 demonstrators marched in Islamabad Friday chanting religious and anti-American slogans and demanding the release of those detained .
Organizers say they object to raids on religious schools and mosques in a crackdown they say is an effort to appease the United States and the West .
More than 300 people have been detained so far across Pakistan since the July seventh London bombings carried out by British Muslims of Pakistani origin who had visited the country before the attacks .
In a nationwide address Thursday , Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf sought the support of Pakistanis in the fight against extremism and terrorism .
Police in Israel have charged an Iranian-born Israeli with passing defense information to Iran .
Media reports say the man is believed to have had contact with Iranian intelligence agents in Istanbul and given them the names of people serving in the Israeli security and intelligence services .
Police officials say the suspect was arrested earlier this month and formally charged in Tel Aviv Sunday .
The suspect 's identity has not been released .
Japan says it will give Afghanistan $ 110 million in aid to help with border security , literacy and the plight of refugees in the war-torn country .
Japan announced its pledge Tuesday at the beginning of a two-day international conference in Tokyo on Afghan reconstruction aid .
Representatives from 24 countries and international organizations are attending the meeting , which will also focus on combating narcotics and improving security in Afghanistan .
Speaking Tuesday in Tokyo , Afghan Foreign Minister Rangeen Dadfar Spanta thanked the international community for its help and asked for its continued support .
Japan provides funds for Afghanistan 's rebuilding efforts .
Last month , Tokyo resumed a naval refueling mission in support of U.S.-led coalition efforts .
Afghanistan 's foreign minister met with Japanese Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda in Tokyo on Monday ahead of the two-day meeting .
During that gathering , Mr. Fukuda said Japan would continue to support Afghanistan 's reconstruction and security .
China has reported another flock of bird flu-infected fowl - its ninth outbreak in a month .
The latest outbreak killed poultry in Anhui province .
The announcement came as World Health Organization experts are in China to investigate whether bird flu caused the death of a 12-year-old girl and sickened two other people in Hunan province .
Vietnam also reported new outbreaks of avian flu among birds in four provinces today .
The deadly H5N1 strain of the virus has been found in 10 of the country 's 64 provinces and has killed more than 40 people in Vietnam since 2002 .
Taiwanese officials are on alert as agriculture officials reported finding a sample of the H7N3 strain of bird flu in droppings left by a migratory bird .
The H7 strains are also known to infect humans .
U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice William Rehnquist says he will continue to perform his duties on the nation 's highest court as long as his health permits .
In a statement issued to the media Thursday , Chief Justice Rehnquist said he is not about to announce his retirement -- and that he wants to put to rest what he called " speculation and unfounded rumors " of his imminent retirement .
The chief justice released his statement hours after he was discharged from a hospital outside Washington .
Mr. Rehnquist was admitted Tuesday for a fever .
The 80-year-old chief justice has thyroid cancer , and his health has raised questions about how much longer he will be able to serve on the nine-member high court .
President Bush is currently considering choices to replace another judge on the court , retiring justice Sandra Day O'Connor .
U.S. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld , who is in Guatemala , has announced Washington will release $ 3.2 million in military aid to the Central American country .
Mr. Rumsfeld made the announcement following a meeting Thursday , with President Oscar Berger .
The money is intended for various uses , including assisting in training and modernizing Guatemala 's armed forces .
Meanwhile , Venezuela 's vice president Jose Vicente Rangel has rebuffed comments made by Mr. Rumsfeld in Brazil Wednesday .
The secretary said that he does not understand why Venezuela needed to purchase 1,00,000 AK-47s .
Mr. Rumsfeld said they could pose a threat in the region .
The vice president says the U.S. defense secretary 's criticisms violate Venezuela 's sovereignty and are part of what he called a " systematic " U.S. campaign against President Hugo Chavez 's government .
An Army investigator is reported to have recommended seeking the death penalty against four U.S. soldiers accused of murdering Iraqis .
The Associated Press says the recommendation by Colonel James Daniel will be forwarded to Army officials for a final decision .
The news agency says it has obtained a report in which the Colonel concludes the slayings were premeditated and warranted the death penalty , based on evidence he heard at an August hearing .
The four soldiers , part of the 101st Airborne division , are accused of killing three Iraqi men during a raid near Samarra on May 9 .
The soldiers have denied any wrongdoing , and have said they were following orders to kill all military age Iraqis they encountered on their mission .
Their commanding officer denied issuing such an order .
U.S. Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte met with Pakistan 's President Pervez Musharraf at the leader 's official residence in Islamabad Thursday .
Pakistan 's Foreign Ministry said the men discussed bilateral relations , counter-terrorism and regional issues .
The ministry said General Musharraf told Negroponte that the U.S. , particularly the media , needed to better understand Pakistan 's anti-terrorism efforts .
During this two-day trip to Pakistan , Negroponte has praised Mr. Musharraf 's government as a key ally in the fight against terrorism .
Also Thursday , the U.S. diplomat met with Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz .
Details of their talks are not yet available .
Negroponte arrived in Pakistan on Wednesday .
He is the former director of national intelligence , the head of all U.S. intelligence agencies .
He also served as the U.S. ambassador to Iraq in 2004 and 2005 .
Three school children were among at least 13 people killed Wednesday in a series of attacks in the Iraqi capital .
Police say the children were headed to school when they were killed by a roadside bomb in central Baghdad .
Shootings and three car bombs in Baghdad claimed 10 more lives , including those of six policemen .
The U.S. military also announced that U.S. soldiers killed five suspected terrorists in incidents south of Baghdad this week .
Meanwhile , the Pentagon has confirmed the authenticity of a set of photographs aired on Australian television of U.S. soldiers abusing prisoners at Iraq 's notorious Abu Ghraib prison .
Defense officials say the photos , which show graphic abuse , were among those investigated after the prison scandal two years ago .
Those photos sparked widespread protests against U.S. presence in Iraq .
Iranian Foreign Minister Kamal Kharazi says India 's decision to go ahead with a pipeline project to bring Iranian gas to India via Pakistan will encourage regional peace and trade .
Mr. Kharazi is on a two-day visit to New Delhi and he made the remarks as he met Indian Foreign Minister Natwar Singh and was due to call on Prime Minister Manmohan Singh .
He said India 's recent approval of the gas pipeline has created an encouraging atmosphere for pushing ahead this highly important project .
Negotiations on the more than 2,700 kilometer pipeline began in 1994 .
But strained relations between India and Pakistan held up approval of the project .
The talks gained momentum after India 's new Congress government came to power last May and pushed forward an ongoing peace process with Pakistan .
Russia has handed Poland thousands of new documents on the investigation into the plane crash that killed Polish President Lech Kaczynski in April .
Russian Deputy Prosecutor General Alexander Zvyagintsev says the documents include witness interviews , photographs and other data from the crash in western Russia .
The documents were given Thursday to a Polish delegation led by chief military prosecutor Krzysztof Parulski .
Earlier this month , Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk complained about what he called Russian delays in turning over the evidence , which is crucial to a parallel Polish probe .
The April 10 crash killed President Kaczynski , his wife and 94 others outside the Russian city of Smolensk .
Officials say poor visibility was a major factor in the crash .
But they are also seeking to learn whether President Kaczynski or others pressured the pilots to attempt a landing despite heavy fog .
Robert Zoellick is welcomed by an African Union soldier as he arrives in Northern Darfur region 's administrative capital El Fasher U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick has called on the Sudanese government to accept responsibility for disarming the Arab militias accused of subjecting civilians to rape and other violence .
Mr. Zoellick arrived in the war-torn Darfur region Friday to assess the security and humanitarian crisis that has left tens of thousands of people dead and has displaced more than two million others .
He is scheduled to meet with Sudanese officials later .
Earlier , the U.S. diplomat met the head of the African Union mission in Sudan Said Djinnit .
Both agreed that security remains unacceptably low and that an increase in the number of peacekeepers and an expansion of their presence is essential to restoring civility .
A mutilated Afghan woman , who appeared on a recent cover of Time magazine , has arrived in the United States where she will undergo reconstructive surgery .
The 18-year-old , named Aisha , will decide with doctors at the Grossman Burn Foundation in Los Angeles in the U.S. western state of California how to replace her nose , which was sliced off by her abusive husband .
Her ears were also hacked off .
Aisha , who has been identified only by her first name , says her nose was cut off as punishment by the Taliban for running away from her abusive husband and in-laws .
Activists and human rights workers say they are glad Aisha is getting treatment , but note that thousands of other women continue to be victims of domestic violence in Afghanistan .
U.N. official says Secretary-General Kofi Annan has written a letter to Iran 's new president , Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , demanding the release of a jailed dissident journalist .
The official , speaking on condition of anonymity because Iran had not yet received the letter , said Mr. Annan is seeking Akbar Ganji 's immediate release on humanitarian grounds .
Mr. Ganji was jailed in 2001 , after writing news stories linking public officials to the murders of political dissidents .
Two months ago , he began a hunger strike to protest his imprisonment .
He remains in government custody at a Tehran hospital and is believed to be in critical condition .
Iranian officials say Mr. Ganji has ended the hunger strike .
But his wife told VOA she could not confirm the claim because she had been denied access to her husband .
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and his Christian Democratic Union challenger , Angela Merkel , are so close together in the latest pre-election polls that they have both vowed to break with tradition and campaign straight through the end of voting on Sunday evening .
Two polls released on Friday indicate a conservative coalition led by Ms. Merkel has a slim majority over a center-left coalition led by Mr. Schroeder .
However , 25 percent of those polled say they are still undecided , which makes the race too close to call .
The conservatives started out the campaign with a large lead , one that has decreased as Mr. Schroeder 's attacks on Ms. Merkel 's economic plan have hit home .
Ms. Merkel has assailed the high unemployment rate in Germany under Mr. Schroeder 's leadership , while Mr. Schroeder says Ms. Merkel 's tax proposals will unravel the country 's social fabric .
The head of the Arab League has stressed the Arab world 's ties with Iraq 's Kurds during a visit to the country 's autonomous Kurdish region .
Amr Moussa addressed the Kurdish parliament Sunday , telling lawmakers that Kurds are an important part of Iraq and the entire Middle East .
Mr. Moussa is in Iraq for his first visit since the fall of Saddam Hussein in 2003 .
He has proposed holding a conference to help reconcile Iraq 's Sunni Arab , Shi'ite and Kurdish communities .
Meanwhile , insurgents killed at least 11 people in attacks across Iraq Sunday .
In the deadliest attack , a roadside bomb killed a police officer and his four children in Tikrit .
And the U.S. military says soldiers killed two suspected members of al-Qaida in Iraq and detained 22 others during raids in Mosul and Ramadi .
Police in Australia say they have charged eight people with involvement in an illegal Asian World Cup betting ring .
New South Wales police said Wednesday they took six men from Hong Kong and two Malaysian women into custody after raiding a hotel in central Sydney .
Officers from a special South East Asian Crime Squad seized computers , networking equipment , calculators , mobile phones , documents and cash .
In a statement , police say the eight were part of an Asian betting operation and that they flew into Australia three days ago .
They were charged with unlicensed bookmaking under Australia 's Unlawful Gaming Act and are due to appear in court on July 4 .
The accused have been turned over to immigration department officials pending their court appearance .
World oil prices hit a new record high Monday of nearly $ 64 a barrel .
The price of crude oil for future delivery was as high as $ 63.95 a barrel in New York trading .
Analysts say the rising prices reflect security concerns in the world 's largest oil producer , Saudi Arabia .
The United States has temporarily closed its embassy in the Saudi capital , along with some other diplomatic facilities in the country , after threats of terrorist attacks .
Australia and Britain also warned of possible attacks .
Experts say oil prices also are being pushed upward by problems at refineries .
Crude oil prices are at least 40 percent higher today than they were one year ago .
Thousands of Buddhist pilgrims gathered at a temple in southern Russia Tuesday to join prayers led by the Dalai Lama , who has been allowed in the country for the first time in more than 12 years .
The Tibetan spiritual leader was visiting the Khurul Monastery during the second day of this three-day visit to Russia 's Buddhist region of Kalmykia .
China has criticized Moscow 's decision to grant the Dalai Lama a visa , saying Beijing does not approve of any country allowing him to engage in what China calls separatist activities .
Russian officials say they issued him a visa with the expectation he would not engage in any political activities .
Moscow has rejected visa requests from the Dalai Lama at least three times in the past .
The Ukrainian parliament has ousted the government of Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko in a no-confidence vote .
A majority of 243 lawmakers in the 450-member chamber on Wednesday approved the no-confidence measure brought by the party of Regions led by newly-elected President Viktor Yanukovych .
Mr. Yanukovych defeated Ms. Tymoshenko in a presidential runoff election last month .
Under Ukraine 's constitution , the Tymoshenko government is automatically required to resign , although it can stay on as a caretaker until a new government is appointed .
Ms. Tymoshenko earlier indicated she would resign immediately , if the no-confidence measure was approved .
A newly released poll shows Americans may be ready to change the political party in control of Congress .
An Associated Press / Ipsos poll released Friday found that 49 percent of those surveyed would like to see opposition Democrats in control of Congress while 36 percent favored the ruling Republicans .
Midterm elections will not be held until November .
Inside the House of Representatives , a petition has begun circulating among Republicans calling for the election of new party leadership .
Former House Leader Tom Delay relinquished his leadership position in Congress when he was indicted on money-laundering charges but said he would reclaim the post when he clears himself of the charges .
Republican house members say recent reports of Mr. Delay 's association with a disgraced lobbyist make his timely return to leadership unlikely .
Spain has announced its Davis Cup tennis team that will host the United States in the final next month in Seville .
The team members are Juan Carlos Ferrero , Carlos Moya , Rafael Nadal and Tommy Robredo , the same players Spain used to beat the Netherlands in the quarterfinal and France in the semifinal .
Moya is the highest ranked player on the team at number five .
Robredo is next at 13th .
The United States announced its team for the final last month , and it will be headed by world number two Andy Roddick .
The Davis Cup final is set for December 03-May .
The United States has won the cup a record 31 times but this is the first final since 1997 for the Americans , who last took the title in 1995 .
Spain won the Davis Cup in 2000 .
The trial of scores of soldiers and a dozen civilians accused of plotting a series of coups in Mauritania resumed Tuesday , despite a boycott by defense lawyers protesting the arrest of a colleague .
The defense lawyers walked out on Monday after the judge jailed one of them for what he called a lack of discipline .
A handful of suspects were questioned during Tuesday 's proceedings , but all refused to give any answers since their lawyers were absent .
Those on trial include two opposition leaders and former Mauritanian President Mohamed Khouna Ould Haidallah .
They said they will plead innocent to the charges .
There are a total of 181 suspects accused of taking part in successive coup plots against current President Maaouiya Ould Taya since last year .
The United States has launched an advertisement campaign on Pakistani television and radio offering multi-million dollar rewards for information leading to the arrest of Osama bin Laden and 13 other al-Qaida leaders .
The brief television commercial which shows pictures of Osama bin Laden and his deputy Ayman al-Zawahiri , offers a $ 25 million reward for each of them and a lesser amount for the others .
The ad also promises resettlement and witness protection for informants and their families .
A key ally in Washington 's war on terror , Pakistan has already captured about 500 al-Qaida suspects and handed them over to the United States .
U.S. officials believe bin Laden and other key militants have been hiding along the rugged border between Pakistan and Afghanistan .
U.S. and Russian officials have opened a customs control center in Moscow aimed at improving Russia 's ability to prevent illegal trafficking in nuclear-related materials .
Before the center opened Thursday , customs offices along Russia 's expansive border regions communicated with their Moscow headquarters primarily by telephone .
The new U.S.-funded center provides electronic data transfer between the outposts and Moscow .
Russian officials say the customs offices managed to block 200 attempts to take radioactive materials into or out of the country last year .
Since 1998 , the United States has spent millions of dollars to assist Russia in preventing trafficking in nuclear materials and equipment .
Afghan military officials say a suspected bomb has exploded among fuel tankers outside the main base for the U.S.-led coalition force in southern Afghanistan .
The officials say two fuel tankers exploded outside the base near Kandahar city early Friday , setting fire to eight others .
It was not immediately clear if there were any casualties .
The blast came amid a major surge in violence by Taleban-led rebels that has left more than 1,400 dead in the past six months and raised concern for Afghanistan 's fragile democracy .
Violence has risen sharply in and around Kandahar , a former Taleban stronghold , with four suicide bombings in recent weeks and five medical aid workers killed Wednesday as they were returning to the city after treating people at a nearby refugee camp .
Russian environmental officials have detected an increase in the level of cancer-causing benzene in the Amur River , but they said it is not clear if it is from the November 13 Chinese chemical spill .
Officials in Russia 's far east said it could take several more days before the worst of the spill reaches Russian territory .
Also Wednesday , scientists with the non-profit World Wildlife Fund rejected claims that the toxic slick poses less of a threat as it becomes diluted .
They said the full extent of the damage may not be understood until well after the spring thaw , when melting ice frees trapped chemicals .
An explosion at a Chinese factory two weeks ago released some 100 tons of cancer-causing agents .
They are now flowing down China 's Songhua River towards Russia , forcing cities to shut down water systems over contamination fears .
Cuba and Brazil have remembered Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat with praise and have restated their support for his dream of a Palestinian state .
Cuban President Fidel Castro Thursday declared three days of official mourning for Mr. Arafat , saying the pain of the Palestinian leader 's loss was Cuba 's pain .
In a commentary , Cuba 's Communist Party newspaper , Granma , called Mr. Arafat one of the " firmest , most prestigious and tireless fighters for the Arab cause . "
It called his life a struggle for liberation , the defense of his people 's rights , and a sovereign and independent Palestine .
In Brazil , President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva called Mr. Arafat a historic leader and sent his condolences .
He called for peace in the Middle East and a free and sovereign Palestinian state .
Venezuela 's president is urging President Bush to use his second term in office to strengthen ties with Latin American nations .
President Hugo Chavez says he hopes President Bush 's foreign policy agenda will include efforts aimed at repairing strained relations with Venezuela .
The statement comes as President Chavez arrived in Santo Domingo Saturday for a meeting with Dominican President Leonel Fernandez .
The relationship between Venezuela and the U.S. has been troubled since 2002 , when Washington endorsed a coup that briefly ousted President Chavez from office .
The Associated Press quotes the Dominican President as saying his country is willing to serve if it can be helpful in mediating a return to good relations between Venezuela and the U.S.
Venezuela and Cuba have signed 16 new cooperation agreements , including accords on telecommunications , tourism and the economy .
The agreements were signed in Caracas Wednesday by Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez and Cuban Vice President Carlos Lage .
During a news conference with Lage , Mr. Chavez said his ailing friend , Cuban leader Fidel Castro , is recovering following intestinal surgery last year and has been up and walking around .
The Venezuelan president showed a letter that Mr. Chavez said was signed by Mr. Castro .
Last week , Mr. Chavez said Mr. Castro was in a battle for his life .
The Cuban government treats Mr. Castro 's health as a state secret .
Mr. Castro has not been seen in public since late July when he underwent surgery .
At the time , he temporarily handed power to his younger brother , Defense Minister Raul Castro .
Two senior U.S. envoys have delayed a trip to the Middle East this week after Israeli Prime Minster Ariel Sharon suffered a major stroke .
A State Department spokesman said the trip , set to begin Thursday , would be rescheduled .
The envoys were to meet with Israeli and Palestinian officials in an effort to prevent delays in Palestinian legislative elections set for January 25 .
Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas has said he may postpone the vote if Israel makes good on a threat to block voting in East Jerusalem .
Thursday , Mr. Abbas expressed concern for Mr. Sharon 's medical condition , but said it would not affect the election .
In Jerusalem , Israel 's acting Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said the Israeli government is fully operational .
Officials said Israeli elections set for March 28 will be held as scheduled .
Afghan officials say a roadside bomb killed six civilians and wounded nine others Sunday in southern Kandahar province .
There has been no claim of responsibility for the bombing .
Roadside bombs are a favorite weapon of Taliban insurgents in their campaign against foreign forces and the Afghan government , but civilians often fall prey to the explosions .
U.S. and NATO commanders have warned of an increase in violence as international and Afghan forces work to clear the south of Taliban insurgents .
In other developments Sunday , the Dutch are scheduled to withdraw the last of their 1,600-member force from Afghanistan .
And in the Afghan capital , Kabul , hundreds of demonstrators protested the killing of 52 civilians in a NATO rocket strike .
NATO disputes the report of civilian deaths in the Helmand province attack .
Vice President Dick Cheney says the Bush administration will continue " full speed ahead " with its Iraq war policy , no matter which party takes control of U.S. Congress in Tuesday 's elections .
In a television interview to be aired Sunday , Cheney acknowledges the conflict is not popular with the American public , but says the administration is doing what it thinks is right .
Recent polls suggest the opposition Democratic Party is poised to take control of the House of Representatives , and possibly the Senate .
The vice president repeated the administration 's assertion that Democrats do not have a concrete plan on Iraq .
He also says the opposition will not extend the tax cuts President Bush successfully pushed through Congress in 2001 .
Police in Istanbul have arrested 63 people taking part in a demonstration ahead of International Women 's Day .
A crowd of 150 people had gathered in front of the mayor 's office in an early observance of the March 8 celebration .
Police ordered them to disperse , saying their rally was illegal .
The protesters refused , and continued to chant slogans .
Television footage showed police using pepper spray and truncheons to break up the demonstration .
Many in the crowd dispersed , fleeing into side streets .
Authorities say demonstrators broke the windows of a police vehicle in the process .
Police also broke up a second demonstration of about 250 people in the Beyazit district .
There were no reports of arrest .
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak held separate talks in Cairo Sunday with Israeli and Palestinian leaders , as well as the US Middle East peace envoy .
Sunday 's meetings focused on ways to encourage the two sides to return to direct negotiations .
The Associated Press quotes Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit as saying the basis to move from indirect to direct talks is still " lacking . "
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas has said he wo n't negotiate directly with Israel until there is progress on issues including borders , security and Israeli settlement construction .
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says he wants to move to direct talks .
US envoy George Mitchell has been in the region for indirect talks with both Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Abbas .
The head of China 's environmental protection agency has resigned following a chemical spill that polluted a major river and forced the shutdown of water supplies in parts of the country 's northeast .
The official Xinhua news agency reported the resignation Friday , but did not provide details .
Meanwhile , China 's foreign ministry says it is sending Russia 150 tons of activated charcoal to help filter pollution from the toxic chemical slick moving along the Amur river toward the Russian city of Khabarovsk .
Earlier this week , Russian environmental officials reported higher levels of benzene in the river , but said it is not clear if the toxic chemical is from the massive spill in China two weeks ago .
A November 13 explosion at a factory dumped 100 tons of poisonous chemicals into China 's Songhua river .
The environmental group Worldwide Fund for Nature is warning that illegal fishing is driving the bluefin tuna in the Mediterranean and East Atlantic to extinction .
The WWF says in a new report that annual fishing quotas for the bluefin are exceeded by more than 40 percent .
It calls the European Union , Libyan , and Turkish fishing fleets the biggest offenders .
The report says some unreported bluefin catches are quickly processed at sea before being shipped to Japan , where the fish is one of the most popular portions of sushi dinners .
The WWF is urging European officials to call for an immediate halt to Atlantic bluefin fishing to give the species time to recover .
It says it will call for a consumer boycott in the United States and Japan if no action is taken .
Palestinian medical officials say an Israeli airstrike has killed two Palestinian militants in the northern Gaza Strip .
The Israeli military has confirmed the attack , saying its helicopter targeted two men who were firing rockets across the border into Israeli territory .
The Islamic Jihad militant group claimed responsibility .
The airstrike was launched after rockets fired from northern Gaza exploded in the Israeli town of Sderot .
One Israeli was wounded .
Earlier Sunday , Israeli soldiers shot and killed two Hamas gunmen in northern Gaza .
The Israeli army confirmed that its troops shot two Palestinians who approached the border fence .
Israeli troops often shoot at Palestinians who approach the fence in an effort to prevent infiltrations by militants .
Israel also conducts raids into Gaza to stop militants from launching rockets into Israel .
Afghan and NATO forces have killed 20 Taleban militants during fighting in southern Afghanistan .
A local police chief says the clash occurred late Wednesday in the Shah Wali Kot district of Kandahar province .
The police chief says three of the 20 Taleban fighters ' bodies were found .
Authorities say there were no injuries among Afghan or NATO forces .
Militant attacks have soared in recent months in Afghanistan .
More than 3,000 people have been killed this year as Afghan , NATO and U.S. forces battle Taleban fighters .
President Bush has called on the U.S. Congress to pass a defense spending bill before it goes on recess next month .
Mr. Bush made the comment Thursday at the annual meeting of the American Legislative Exchange Council ( ALEC ) .
The organization is made up of state lawmakers who draft " model legislation . "
During his speech , the president said Congress has been " dragging its feet " in getting 12 spending bills to him , including the defense bill .
On the economy , Mr. Bush stressed the need to keep taxes low , which he said has yielded a strong economy .
On education , the president said Congress needs to reauthorize his " No Child Left Behind " legislation in order to close what he called an " achievement gap " in America .
Mr. Bush concluded his speech by speaking of securing the United States from terrorists .
A U.S.-based rights group says Chinese authorities arrested two elderly Roman Catholic priests in the days before the death of Pope John Paul .
The Cardinal Kung Foundation , which supports the underground Catholic Church in China , said in a press release Sunday that authorities detained Bishop Yao Liang last Thursday .
The foundation said that before his arrest , Bishop Yao , who is in his eighties , had been under mounting pressure from authorities to sever ties with the pope and join China 's official Catholic Church .
The statement said that on Friday , Father Wang Jinling , also in his eighties , was arrested too .
The foundation said it does not know why he was detained or where he is being kept .
Officials in Afghanistan say the commander of a pro-government militia force has been killed by a roadside bomb in an attack blamed on Taleban insurgents .
Officials say the commander was killed Friday , when his car was hit by the blast in southern Helmand province .
Reuters news agency identifies the victim as Shadi Khan -- the former chief of Deshu district police .
Hours earlier , a government official was killed in an ambush in neighboring Zabul province .
Violence has spiraled in recent weeks after a winter lull in fighting , with repeated attacks on Afghan security forces and U.S.-led coalition troops .
Taleban fighters have been waging an insurgency since U.S.-led forces ousted the hard-line Afghan government in the aftermath of the September 11 , 2001 attacks on the United States .
Kosovo 's delegation for possible talks on the future of the United Nations-run province has met for the first time and stressed it would seek independence for the largely ethnic-Albanian region .
After the meeting , Kosovo President Ibrahim Rugova said seeking unification of Kosovo with Albania would create more problems .
He says an independent Kosovo is the best solution for the Balkans .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan Wednesday said he will soon decide whether to start the Kosovo talks .
Kosovo is officially part of Serbia , and authorities in Belgrade oppose any change in that status .
Meanwhile , the International Committee of the Red Cross says Kosovo and Serbian authorities have identified the remains of 200 more people unaccounted for since the conflict of the late 1990s and returned them to their families in the past few months .
But it says there is no word on the fate of additional 2,500 .
A man described as an Israeli army deserter shot and killed four people near a northern Israeli-Arab town , but was then killed by a huge mob of angry townspeople .
Israeli media quote witnesses as saying the mob killing came shortly after the Israeli opened fire aboard a bus Thursday afternoon near the Israeli-Arab town of Shfaram .
Witnesses say two girls and the bus driver were among the dead .
At least 12 others were wounded before locals stormed the bus and killed the gunman .
He was identified as a religious deserter from the army who refused to take part in the upcoming Israeli pullout of the Gaza Strip .
Israeli news reports say the shooter was a member of the outlawed extremist Kach party .
Spanish police have arrested four Moroccans suspected of having direct links to last year 's Madrid commuter train bombings that killed 191 people .
An Interior Ministry statement says police detained the four Tuesday in a Madrid suburb .
It says the four , all members of the same family , are believed to have ties to Morocco 's Islamic Combat Group , an al-Qaida-linked movement blamed for bombing attacks in November 2003 , in Casablanca , Morocco , that killed 45 people .
Police also say they issued an international arrest warrant for another Moroccan , Youssef Belhadj , who currently lives in Belgium .
Spanish authorities say they believe the suspect appeared on a videotape claiming that al-Qaida had carried out the attacks on four Madrid commuter trains , which also wounded about 1,900 people .
Russia 's embattled oil giant Yukos says a Moscow court has frozen the company 's stake in the Sibneft oil firm .
The business daily Vedomosti says the action could pave the way for the 34.5 percent stake to be seized if authorities prove it was acquired with illegal funds .
Yukos was to merge with Sibneft , but that deal was called off following the arrest last year of then-Yukos chief Mikhail Khodorkovsky .
Mr. Khodorkovsky has remained in prison and is currently on trial for tax evasion and fraud .
Meanwhile , Yukos is struggling to pay billions of dollars in back taxes .
Critics say the extensive probe is politically motivated because Mr. Khodorkovsky was a supporter of the political opposition .
The Kremlin insists the actions are part of a crackdown on corruption .
Several civilians - including children - have died in separate violent incidents in Afghanistan .
In southern Helmand province , a suicide bomber Friday detonated explosives near a military compound in Sangin town , killing two children .
Also Friday , the U.S. military said that several other civilians were killed during a battle between Taleban insurgents and Afghan troops backed by U.S.-led coalition forces in the southeast .
The joint force came under attack during a raid on compounds suspected of housing militants in Paktika province .
The U.S. military says that several Taleban fighters also died .
Afghan leaders have repeatedly called on the nearly 50,000 foreign troops in Afghanistan to avoid causing civilian deaths .
The U.S.-led coalition and NATO-led forces have blamed the Taleban for launching attacks from within civilian compounds and from populated areas .
Afghanistan is going through its worst period of violence since a U.S.-led invasion in 2001 ousted the Taleban government .
Chad 's government is extending emergency measures by six months in an effort to quell ethnic conflicts in the country 's east .
Prime Minister Pascal Yoadimnadji told lawmakers that more time is needed to restore peace and reconciliation .
He also accused the government in neighboring Sudan of fueling the conflict .
Sudan denies the claim .
Chad first declared a state of emergency last week , because of fighting between ethnic Arab and ethnic African communities .
Officials say 400 people have died in recent attacks , and thousands of others have fled their homes .
United Nations officials say Chadian villagers described being attacked by Arab nomads from Chad and western Sudan .
U.N. officials and aid workers say they fear the conflict in Sudan 's Darfur region between rebels and pro-government forces is spreading to Chad .
An Iraqi member of al-Qaida has confessed to killing a Jordanian taxi driver and kidnapping two employees of Morocco 's embassy in Baghdad .
The confession of Ziyad Khalaf Karbouli was broadcast Tuesday on Jordanian state TV .
Jordanian TV says Karbouli worked as a customs agent on the Iraqi side of the border with Jordan .
In his confession , Karbouli described how he shot the Jordanian driver Khaled Desouki twice in the head .
Karbouli says he kidnapped the two Moroccans last October as they returned to Iraq after visiting Amman .
Jordanian TV credited the country 's intelligence service and its special forces with the capture without releasing details .
It is unclear whether the kidnapped Moroccans are still alive .
Zimbabwe 's state-run Herald newspaper says authorities have temporarily closed a school where at least 53 students were sexually abused .
The Herald reports that five suspects , including a teacher and a caretaker , carried out the abuse at the school in the southeastern town of Macheke .
The paper says 16 girls were repeatedly abused by one person and infected with sexually transmitted diseases .
The Herald quotes Zimbabwean Education Minister Aeneas Chigwedere as saying the school closed a week early and all staff were transferred immediately .
It says the school will re-open on September 1 under a new administration .
Hospital officials in Israel say the condition of comatose former Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has deteriorated further .
A statement issued Monday from the Tel Aviv hospital where Mr. Sharon is being treated says the former prime minister has a new chest infection and his urine output has decreased significantly .
The 78-year-old Mr. Sharon has been unconscious since early January when he suffered a massive stroke .
Pakistan says it will consider extraditing Taleban spokesman Abdul Latif Hakimi to Afghanistan if the Afghan government makes a formal request .
Pakistani officials say Mr. Hakimi was detained with five other suspected Taleban members in a raid this week on a house on the outskirts of Quetta , capital of Pakistan 's Baluchistan province bordering Afghanistan .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai told France 's LCI television Wednesday his country would seek the extradition of Mr. Hakimi , saying he is responsible for many atrocities in Afghanistan .
A Pakistani foreign ministry spokeswoman said the ministry has seen the reports , but has not formally received a request from Afghanistan for the extradition of Mr. Hakimi .
Pakistani intelligence officials say they have been questioning Mr. Hakimi about his links with senior Taleban leaders , the organization and structure of the Taleban , and to determine how he was operating in Pakistan .
Iraqi political leaders are continuing efforts to win support from Sunni Arabs for a new constitution , before Saturday 's national referendum on the draft .
Iraq 's majority Shi'ites and Kurds support the draft , but minority Sunni Arabs oppose it , fearing that they will be sidelined under the proposed federal system .
In another development , Iraq 's anti-corruption commission says arrest warrants have been issued for some two dozen officials from the previous interim government of Prime Minister Iyad Allawi .
The commission says the former senior officials , including former defense minister Hazem al-Shaalan , are suspected of embezzling more than $ 1 billion from military procurement funds .
Many of the accused are said to have left Iraq since the Allawi cabinet was replaced by an elected transitional government in April .
The European Commission says it will initiate legal action against France over that country 's failure to comply with European legal rulings in six cases dealing with environmental protection .
The Commission , the EU 's policy initiating body , says France has failed to react to several court rulings by the European Court of Justice since 2001 .
The cases relate to the protection of water , species and habitats , as well as waste treatment .
The Commission says that under the rulings , France must adjust its national environmental laws to bring them in line with EU regulations .
Otherwise , it says , France could incur fines .
The Associated Press quotes French officials as saying their government has made it a priority since 2002 to catch up on its delays in enforcing EU directives .
Business jumped 16 percent in the first half of the year for Dubai World 's global port operations .
The firm is the fourth-largest of its kind in the world and saw gains at ports it operates in Asia , Australia , and parts of Europe .
The company handled the equivalent of 23.7 million standard containers between January and June .
That is a significant gain from the same period a year ago when it moved a bit more than 20 million containers .
The company welcomes the growth , which comes after a steep decline in global trade during the economic crisis .
But managers say it is unclear if the growth will continue for the rest of the year .
Come one , Come all to the Inaugural Jameson Grill
The only fund raising event in the world where you can bring your entire family , other employees , or maybe even your neighbors .
Saturday , September 20 , 1997 , from 2.00 p.m. until 7.00 p.m. , marks a special day , as Jameson Camp will hold its first ever Jameson Grill .
A fund raiser dedicated to you and your family having fun ! !
For this event , when you purchase a corporate picnic table , you will be able to bring 16 people .
( and if you need room for a couple of more , we can swing that too ! )
The Grill will feature enough activities that you and your kids will have a tough time deciding what to do .
From basketball , kickball , volleyball , archery , crafts , an egg toss , and even a walk through our creek , you will have plenty to do to get you good and hungry .
Hungry , you bet ! We 'll prepare a hog roast and hot dogs for the kids , with all the fixings .
In addition , we will have soft drinks and a raffle , so that you can walk home with a great prize !
The Jameson Grill has been designed to be nothing but fun for you , your family , employees , and maybe even your neighbors .
Join in this wonderful event and help Jameson Camp continue to provide the year-round support that gives kids a chance to create dreams .
Simply fill out the enclosed card , and we will see you at the Grill !
One of our volunteers will be contacting you soon .
Questions ?
Call Pat Bray at 241-2661 or e-mail , jcfundrzr@aol.com
Multiple waves of colonizers , each speaking a distinct language , migrated to the New Hebrides in the millennia preceding European exploration in the 18th century .
This settlement pattern accounts for the complex linguistic diversity found on the archipelago to this day .
The British and French , who settled the New Hebrides in the 19th century , agreed in 1906 to an Anglo-French Condominium , which administered the islands until independence in 1980 , when the new name of Vanuatu was adopted .
Founded in 963 , Luxembourg became a grand duchy in 1815 and an independent state under the Netherlands .
It lost more than half of its territory to Belgium in 1839 but gained a larger measure of autonomy .
Full independence was attained in 1867 .
Overrun by Germany in both world wars , it ended its neutrality in 1948 when it entered into the Benelux Customs Union and when it joined NATO the following year .
In 1957 , Luxembourg became one of the six founding countries of the European Economic Community ( later the European Union ) , and in 1999 it joined the euro currency area .
Russia conquered the territory of present-day Uzbekistan in the late 19th century .
Stiff resistance to the Red Army after the Bolshevik Revolution was eventually suppressed and a socialist republic established in 1924 .
During the Soviet era , intensive production of " white gold " ( cotton ) and grain led to overuse of agrochemicals and the depletion of water supplies , which have left the land poisoned and the Aral Sea and certain rivers half dry .
Independent since 1991 , the country seeks to gradually lessen its dependence on agriculture while developing its mineral and petroleum reserves .
Current concerns include terrorism by Islamic militants , economic stagnation , and the curtailment of human rights and democratization .
The Philippine Islands became a Spanish colony during the 16th century ; they were ceded to the US in 1898 following the Spanish-American War .
In 1935 the Philippines became a self-governing commonwealth .
Manuel QUEZON was elected president and was tasked with preparing the country for independence after a 10-year transition .
In 1942 the islands fell under Japanese occupation during World War II , and US forces and Filipinos fought together during 1944 - 45 to regain control .
On 4 July 1946 the Republic of the Philippines attained its independence .
A 20-year rule by Ferdinand MARCOS ended in 1986 , when a " people power " movement in Manila ( " EDSA 1 " ) forced him into exile and installed Corazon AQUINO as president .
Her presidency was hampered by several coup attempts that prevented a return to full political stability and economic development .
Fidel RAMOS was elected president in 1992 .
His administration was marked by increased stability and by progress on economic reforms .
In 1992 , the US closed its last military bases on the islands .
Joseph ESTRADA was elected president in 1998 .
He was succeeded by his vice-president , Gloria MACAPAGAL-ARROYO , in January 2001 after ESTRADA 's stormy impeachment trial on corruption charges broke down and another " people power " movement ( " EDSA 2 " ) demanded his resignation .
MACAPAGAL-ARROYO was elected to a six-year term as president in May 2004 .
Her presidency was marred by several corruption allegations but the Philippine economy was one of the few to avoid contraction following the 2008 global financial crisis , expanding each year of her administration .
Benigno AQUINO III was elected to a six-year term as president in May 2010 .
The Philippine Government faces threats from several groups on the US Government 's Foreign Terrorist Organization list .
Manila has waged a decades-long struggle against ethnic Moro insurgencies in the southern Philippines , which has led to a peace accord with the Moro National Liberation Front and on-again / off-again peace talks with the Moro Islamic Liberation Front .
The decades-long Maoist-inspired New People 's Army insurgency also operates through much of the country .
TWO GAME COCKS were fiercely fighting for the mastery of the farmyard .
One at last put the other to flight .
The vanquished Cock skulked away and hid himself in a quiet corner , while the conqueror , flying up to a high wall , flapped his wings and crowed exultingly with all his might .
An Eagle sailing through the air pounced upon him and carried him off in his talons .
The vanquished Cock immediately came out of his corner , and ruled henceforth with undisputed mastery .
Pride goes before destruction .
The Minnesota Fish and Game Comission wanted to develop a fish that would offer more for their sportsmen so they crossed a Coho with a Walleye and called it a Kowal .
It grew to a nice size and reproduced well but it would n't bite .
They crossed the Kowal with a Muskie and called it a Kowalski but they were so stupid they had to teach them how to swim .
If you owe the bank $ 100 , that 's your problem .
If you owe the bank $ 100 million , that 's the bank 's problem .
India says it would like the dispute over Iran 's nuclear program to be resolved through negotiations at the International Atomic Energy Agency , not the United Nations Security Council .
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh told reporters in New Delhi Wednesday that the matter should be resolved through diplomacy and dialogue .
The five permanent members of the Security Council have agreed to bring Iran before the powerful body .
But some other key nations have indicated they want to avoid going to the Council .
Mr. Singh declined to specify India 's stand on a possible Security Council referral .
He said he will review the issue in the " national interest . "
In September , New Delhi voted with the United States on an earlier IAEA resolution that could have led to Iran 's referral to the Council .
But the Indian government was severely criticized for that by its left-wing political allies at home .
The presidents of South Africa and Nigeria have arrived in Ivory Coast in another effort to resolve a standoff over the selection of a new prime minister .
Thabo Mbeki and Olusegun Obasanjo plan to hold talks with President Laurent Gbagbo , opposition leaders and rebels who control the northern half of Ivory Coast .
The parties have been unable to agree on a new prime minister who would run a caretaker government until elections scheduled for October 2006 .
Mr. Gbagbo canceled elections scheduled for October of this year and vowed to remain in office another 12 months , sparking anger among rebels and opposition leaders .
The Nigerian and South African leaders traveled Sunday from Mali , where they attended the France-Africa summit .
The president of Niger , Mamadou Tandja , is scheduled to join them for the talks in Abidjan .
U.S. Senator Al Franken says Laotian officials restricted his access to 4,500 Hmong refugees who were forcibly repatriated from Thailand last year .
The lawmaker traveled to Laos on Tuesday to observe the living conditions of the refugees .
He says he spoke with a group of 150 Hmong at village being built for them by the government , and took an aerial tour by helicopter .
Franken told reporters after his visit that he was " unhappy " with the amount of access he was granted .
He says he was accompanied by a high-ranking military official throughout his visit .
The Democratic senator represents Minnesota , which has one of the largest Hmong expatriate communities in the United States .
The senator traveled to Laos as part of a three-member delegation traveling to Vietnam this week , including Tom Harkin of Iowa and independent Bernie Sanders of Vermont .
A legal group representing a detainee who committed suicide at Guantanamo Naval Base earlier this month is expressing concern that the Bush administration may intentionally dispose of evidence related to the case .
The New York-based Center for Constitutional Rights this week sought court protection of evidence related to the death of its client , Ali Abdullah Ahmed al-Salami .
It said the Bush administration has failed to provide a death certificate or autopsy report since three Guantanamo inmates were found dead in their cells June 10 .
The motion also asks for an independent investigation into the suicides .
Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman told VOA that preservation of evidence is standard military practice and , in his words , " a vital part " of such an investigation .
But he said such evidence is not likely to be made public before the inquiry is complete .
Philippine Senator Benigno Aquino III has been formally declared the winner of the country 's presidential election .
A joint session of the upper and lower chambers of Congress formally proclaimed Mr. Aquino the Philippine 's 15th president Wednesday .
The president-elect won the May 10 automated elections in a landslide , garnering more than 15 million votes , while his closest challenger , ex-President Joseph Estrada , got only 9.4 million votes .
Mr. Aquino will take office on June 30 , succeeding President Gloria Arroyo , whose nine-year tenure has been marred by allegations of corruption and election fraud .
He campaigned on a platform of eliminating corruption and poverty .
Mr. Aquino is the son of the late President Corazon Aquino and Senator Benigno Aquino , Jr. , who was assassinated in 1983 at the Manila airport after returning from exile in the United States to challenge the dictatorship of Ferdinand Marcos .
Business owners in parts of the devastated city of New Orleans are being allowed back into the area to start clean-up and begin readying for re-opening .
New Orleans Mayor Ray Nagin has called on business owners to return to the French Quarter and some other parts of the city -- but other officials are warning there may be limited or no electricity or clean running water .
Some residents will also be allowed to return to their homes Monday .
Less than half of New Orleans remains flooded , but dangers from downed power lines , natural gas leaks , toxic debris and other hazards remain .
Hurricane Katrina ravaged the U.S. Gulf Coast on August 29 .
The death toll in five states is now more than 800 .
President Bush is calling on U.S. lawmakers to pass legislation that will limit jury awards in medical malpractice lawsuits .
During a speech in Illinois Wednesday , Mr. Bush promoted legislation that would limit damages awarded for pain and suffering to $ 2,50,000 .
The president says the bill is necessary to put a stop to lawsuits he calls " frivolous . "
The president says excessive jury awards from malpractice lawsuits are forcing doctors out of medicine , because they can not afford the rising costs of malpractice insurance premiums .
But critics say Mr. Bush 's bill favors big insurance companies and drug makers , and does nothing about the rising costs of prescription drugs and insurance premiums .
Mr. Bush made the issue one of the central themes during his re-election campaign .
Authorities in Indian Kashmir say monsoon rains have caused a house to collapse south of Srinagar , killing six members of a family .
One person was rescued from the debris .
Local officials say heavy rains also forced authorities to close the Himalayan region 's main highways , leaving thousands of motorists stranded .
Military units are on standby for flood relief operations .
Monsoon rains sweep through South Asia every year from June to September , killing hundreds of people .
They bring misery to millions of people , but are also crucial for the farm-dependent economies .
Iraqi police say a suicide attack in the northern city of Baiji has killed at least seven people and wounded at least 13 .
Police say the bomber rammed a vehicle into a police building in a residential area Saturday .
Baiji , about 250 kilometers north of Baghdad , has the country 's largest oil refinery and is a key export point for crude oil .
Also , a possible rocket or bomb attack has killed a local leader of the movement of radical Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr .
Iraqi authorities say Uday Hamid and his wife and two children were killed in an explosion at their home south of Baghdad , in Numaniya .
In other news , the U.S. military says coalition forces killed 12 terrorists and detained 13 suspects in operations today targeting al-Qaida in Iraq networks in central and northern Iraq .
Every year , millions of tourists visit Washington 's National Mall .
Many come to participate in events that take place in the U.S. capital .
But the Mall , the 4 kilometer-long green space stretching from the Lincoln Memorial to the domed Capitol Building , is in trouble .
Producer Zulima Palacio has the story , narrated by Jim Bertel , about the Mall 's decay and the urgent need for repair .
India 's economy is growing at an unprecedented rate , prompting far-reaching changes that are rapidly transforming the country .
Among the most visible signs of the new India is a housing boom that targets the country 's growing middle class .
VOA 's Mil Arcega reports .
Egyptian security officials say the number of people killed by a rockslide in Cairo earlier this month is at least 95 , as the search continues for more bodies in the rubble .
The previous death toll was at least 80 , after giant rocks fell from the cliff above the impoverished Manshiyet Nasr neighborhood September sixth .
Angry residents have clashed with rescue workers over what they consider an inadequate response to the disaster .
Rescuers have had to work mostly by hand to remove debris because streets in the neighborhood are too narrow for large machinery .
Officials say rockslides are frequent in the area .
Families living there have appealed to authorities for safer housing .
The U.S. military says American and Iraqi forces have killed nine insurgents , including five suspected Syrians , in a village northwest of Baghdad .
U.S. military officials say the insurgents had fired rocket-propelled grenades and small arms at a U.S. and Iraqi patrol in Cykla .
The officials did not say when the clash occurred .
Washington and the Iraqi government say many insurgents in Iraq come from neighboring Arab countries .
On Thursday , insurgents killed seven people , including six Iraqi soldiers , in coordinated attacks in and around the capital .
The attacks came a day after Abu Musab al-Zarqawi 's terrorist group ( al-Qaida in Iraq ) claimed to have murdered two kidnapped Algerian diplomats .
U.S. and Afghan forces report killing eight insurgents during fighting in southeastern Afghanistan and say they thwarted an attempted suicide bombing at a U.S. base .
Authorities in Zabul province say coalition forces raided a Taleban hideout Saturday , sparking a gunbattle during which eight militants were killed and three captured .
In Khost province Saturday , coalition forces detained a man outside a U.S. base after a grenade he was carrying failed to detonate .
A military statement says the assailant had several explosives hidden on his body when he approached Camp Salerno .
In central Uruzgan province Saturday , Afghan and U.S. troops killed one insurgent and captured six others .
The Taleban has stepped up attacks ahead of parliamentary elections next month .
Croatian General Ante Gotovina pleaded not guilty Tuesday to four new charges of war crimes and crimes against humanity linked to the murders of Croatian Serbs in 1995 .
Prosecutors at the Yugoslav war crimes tribunal in the Hague have charged Gotovina and two other Croatian officers , Ivan Cermak and Mladen Markac , with the crimes .
Gotovina was arrested a year ago on Spain 's Canary Islands and remains in custody .
He had pleaded not guilty to earlier charges .
Cermak and Markac have been released to await their trial .
They appeared at Tuesday 's hearing via a video link , and also pleaded not guilty to new charges .
The Hague war crimes tribunal indicted General Gotovina in 2001 for his role in the deaths of civilians during a 1995 offensive through a Serb-held area of the country .
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has told a forum of Arab leaders in Qatar to enact economic and political reforms or face increased unrest and extremism .
Clinton spoke Thursday in the capital , Doha , as she wrapped up a four-nation tour of the Persian Gulf .
The top U.S. diplomat said if leaders do not offer young people " meaningful ways to contribute , " then others are ready to fill the void .
Clinton said extremists and terrorist groups " who would prey on desperation and poverty " are already appealing for influence .
She also called for an end to corruption and for increased economic opportunities for women and minorities .
Clinton said the " new and dynamic Middle East " needs a firmer foundation in order to grow .
Her tour also included stops in Oman , Yemen and the United Arab Emirates .
Fifty-one people are believed to have killed in a fiery bus crash in China 's mountainous southwest .
China 's official Xinhua news agency reported the bus left the road and plunged 100 meters into a valley in Sichuan province .
Witnesses say they heard an explosion and saw black smoke rising from the crash site .
Xinhua says Sichuan 's provincial governor , Jiang Jufeng , was on his way to supervise rescue and recovery efforts .
There are no reports of any survivors .
The bus was on its way from Sichuan to Ningbo , a coastal city south of Shanghai in eastern Zhejiang province China 's roads are among the most dangerous in the world with accidents often caused by reckless driving , poor road conditions and overloaded vehicles .
Germany 's defense ministry says it is investigating photos published by a popular newspaper that appear to show German troops in Afghanistan posing with a skull .
The daily Bildnewspaper says the pictures were taken near Afghanistan 's capital , Kabul , in 2003 .
The paper says it does not know where the soldiers obtained the skull or how old it was .
German Defense Minister Josef Jung called the pictures disgusting and incomprehensible .
He said such behavior by German soldiers will not be tolerated .
Germany has about 2,800 troops in Afghanistan as part of the NATO peacekeeping mission .
Germany 's parliament voted last month to extend their deployment for another year .
The photos show the soldiers holding the skull up and fastening it to a vehicle like a hood ornament .
Another soldier is shown exposing himself next to the skull .
The newspaper did not say how it obtained the photos .
The head of the U.S. central bank says banks must be smarter about the ways they pay their executives , and government must find better ways to cope with the failure of large financial firms .
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke spoke Friday to a group of community bankers in Phoenix in the western U.S. state of Arizona .
He said " poorly designed " compensation policies can create the wrong incentives and jeopardize the bank 's health .
Bernanke urged bankers to find ways to align executive pay with the long-term interests of the bank .
Bernanke spoke after $ 165 million in bonus payments to executives of the troubled AIG insurance company - which has been propped up with billions of dollars in taxpayers ' money - caused a huge political upheaval .
He also said the government must find a safer way to shut down large financial firms outside the banking sector without disrupting the entire financial system .
The United Nations mission in Liberia says it will respond strongly after threatening text messages were sent to the chief of the electoral commission .
National Elections Commission head Frances Johnson-Morris has told news organizations she laughed when she received two recent messages sent to her mobile phone .
But the U.N. mission in Liberia says it is taking the threats seriously , describing them as a serious impediment to the consolidation of peace and stability in Liberia .
The United Nations also says it will respond " robustly " to any threats of violence against individuals involved in the election process .
Liberians have been widely praised for holding peaceful and transparent elections on October 11 , the nation 's first post-war poll .
A presidential run-off vote is expected in November between the two top vote-getters , former football ( soccer ) star George Weah and former cabinet minister and World Bank economist Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf .
Pakistani officials say a U.S. missile strike has killed at least 10 militants in a tribal region of northwest Pakistan .
Officials say a drone attack Tuesday destroyed a militant compound in the Datta Khel region of North Waziristan .
The United States has regularly launched attacks by the unmanned planes on the district , which is a stronghold of al-Qaida and the Taliban .
Meanwhile , Pakistani police say an anti-Taliban militia in Kurram , another tribal region along the Afghan border , killed 10 Taliban fighters Tuesday .
The militia attacked the Taliban fighters after they attempted to kidnap one of its members .
Last week , Pakistani intelligence officials said two suspected U.S. drone strikes killed at least 12 people in the North Waziristan village of Mizarkhel .
Such attacks have killed senior members of al-Qaida and the Taliban , but have sparked criticism from Pakistan 's government .
United Airlines , the second largest carrier in the United States , is cutting additional jobs , grounding airplanes that use the most fuel , and slashing domestic flights to offset record fuel prices .
United Airlines announced Wednesday it will cut an extra 900 to 1,100 jobs by the end of the year .
The layoffs are in addition to 500 job cuts the carrier announced previously .
United is also grounding 100 of its least fuel-efficient aircraft , 94 Boeing 737s and six 747 airplanes .
The carrier will also slash domestic flights 17 percent by the end of the year .
Last month , American Airlines , the largest carrier in the United States , announced similar measures to offset the high cost of fuel .
American Airlines said it would cut an undetermined number of jobs and slash domestic flights by up to 12 percent .
A British security firm says four of its employees have been killed and 15 others wounded in an attack in Baghdad 's heavily fortified " Green Zone , " which houses the Iraqi government and the U.S.-led coalition .
A spokesman for the " Global Risk Strategies " firm declined to say Friday what kind of attack occurred , but said the incident took place on Thursday .
The development came as Iraqi authorities said an Iraqi policeman was killed and three others wounded when insurgents attacked a police station late Thursday in Rashad , southwest of the northern city of Kirkuk .
Also Friday , the U.S. military said Marines have cleared more than half the houses of weapons in the restive city of Fallujah , after mounting an offensive to crush the city 's rebels .
On Thursday , a large cache of weapons and an apparent chemical weapons laboratory was discovered in Fallujah .
Pakistan 's finance chief says the International Monetary Fund has agreed to provide a $ 7.6 billion loan to help the country stabilize its economy .
Top economic advisor Shaukat Tareen says the loan will prevent Pakistan from defaulting on its foreign debt .
Tareen told reporters in Karachi Saturday that Pakistan will formally apply for the loan next week , but that the IMF has agreed to the deal .
Tareen says Pakistan expects its first IMF loan disbursements this year .
Pope John Paul II will miss the re-enactment of the crucifixion of Jesus Christ , the first time he has not physically attended the ceremony in his 26-year pontificate .
Vatican officials say the 84-year-old pontiff may participate in the Way of the Cross procession at the Colosseum through a video link depending on his health .
The pope was hospitalized twice within the past month and had a tube inserted in his throat to relieve breathing difficulties .
He has delegated other Church officials to preside over ceremonies leading up to Easter , including Friday 's Good Friday events .
Vatican officials say they expect the pope to deliver his Urbi et Orbi blessing on Easter Sunday , when Christians celebrate the resurrection of Jesus Christ .
A South African court says two farm workers accused of killing a white supremacist leader will remain in custody until at least next month .
Court officials said Wednesday that a bail hearing for suspect Chris Mahlangu has been postponed until May 10 at the request of the man 's lawyer .
Meanwhile , the French News Agency says the lawyer for an unidentified 15-year-old suspect has withdrawn a bail application .
Authorities have charged the two workers , both of them black , with murdering Afrikaner Resistance Movement founder Eugene Terre'Blanche .
Terre'Blanche was found bludgeoned to death on his farm west of Johannesburg earlier this month .
Police say the killing may have stemmed from a pay dispute .
The incident has heightened racial tensions in South Africa .
President Jacob Zuma has appealed for calm .
A suicide bomb attack on a convoy of Canadian troops in southern Afghanistan has killed three civilians , including a Canadian official .
Hospital sources in Kandahar city say another 12 people , including three Canadian soldiers , were wounded in Sunday 's blast .
Witnesses say the bomber slammed his explosive-laden vehicle into the convoy .
Canadian Prime Minister Paul Martin confirmed the Canadian casualties during an election campaign appearance in Quebec .
He offered condolences to the victim 's family , and described Canada 's presence in Afghanistan as essential to establishing peace and security there .
A purported spokesman for the Taleban claimed responsibility for the attack .
The Taleban has also claimed responsibility for Saturday 's killing in Kandahar of a former Taleban intelligence chief who renounced the group after it was ousted from power by U.S.-led forces in 2001 .
Pakistani Foreign Minister Khursheed Kasuri says Islamabad is willing to seal its border with Afghanistan by building a fence to stop militants from infiltrating into Afghan territory .
Kasuri made the remark during Sunday talks with his Dutch counterpart , Bernard Bot , who suggested sealing the border during his visit in the Afghan capital , Kabul , a day earlier .
He also said that the fenced border should be jointly monitored by both Pakistani and Afghan security forces .
A Foreign Ministry statement says Bot welcomed Pakistan 's readiness to seal the Afghan-Pakistani border and told Kasuri he would discuss this with other NATO partners .
Afghan officials say Taleban leaders frequently find shelter in Pakistan .
Islamabad denies those accusations , saying it has deployed 80,000 troops in the rugged border region to hunt down Taleban and al-Qaida fugitives .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai is calling for presidential elections to be held four months earlier than an election date set by the country 's Independent Election Commission .
President Karzai issued a decree Saturday noting the constitution requires the vote to be held 30 to 60 days before his five-year term expires on May 21 .
The Independent Election Commission announced last month that it rescheduled the election for August 20 to give incoming U.S. forces time to stabilize the country .
The commission also said it needed time to work out logistical issues and wanted to avoid holding the vote during Afghanistan 's harsh winter weather .
Opposition leaders have insisted that President Karzai step down when his term expires in May and install a caretaker government .
U.S. support for the embattled president came into question after the Obama administration openly accused Mr. Karzai of failing to crack down on government corruption .
The Zambian government says President Levy Mwanawasa has suffered a stroke .
The president was hospitalized Sunday in the Egyptian resort of Sharm El Sheikh , where he was preparing to attend Monday 's summit of African Union leaders .
Zambian Vice President Rupiah Banda says in a statement Monday that Mr. Mwanawasa is being attended to by doctors and his condition is stable .
The Zambian president fell ill on Sunday after attending an AU committee meeting on United Nations reform .
An initial statement from Zambia 's foreign minister had described his ailment as a consequence of high blood pressure .
The AU summit has so far focused largely on the political crisis in Zimbabwe .
Mr. Mwanawasa is known as a critic of Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe , but has said he will not comment on the current situation before AU leaders discuss the matter .
Brazil has agreed not to break a pharmaceutical patent on a crucial AIDS drug after a U.S. drug manufacturer agreed to significantly reduce the price of the drug .
The agreements were announced late Friday after 10 days of talks between Brazil 's government and Abbott Laboratories .
The drug manufacturer will cut prices , saving Brazil 's Ministry of Health over $ 259 million over the next six years .
Abbott also agreed to a technology transfer allowing Brazil 's state-run pharmaceutical labs to begin producing the drug Kaletra in 2009 .
Brazil had accused the U.S. drug maker with exorbitant pricing , and said the government planned to locally produce a cheaper generic copy of the patented drug .
Abbott denied the overpricing charges , and said Brazil 's plans were illegal .
Celebrations of the New Year 2005 were muted around the world as people remembered the tens of thousands of people killed or still suffering as a result of the Indian Ocean tsunami disaster .
Thailand and Turkey canceled traditional fireworks displays and parties .
Malaysians and Indonesians took part in prayer services .
Most New Year 's Eve celebration 's that were held included a moment of silence for the victims as well as fund raising efforts for disaster relief .
Some reports also suggest as many as 10,000 visitors from outside Asia are still missing in the disaster zone .
Many Europeans were on Christmas holiday vacations at south Asian beach resorts and nearly 3,600 Swedes , 1,000 Germans and 700 Italians are still missing .
U.S. officials believe about 3,000 Americans were in south Asia but it is not clear how many of them were in dangerous areas .
U.S. Marines fighting in Fallujah say they have found the mutilated body of what appears to be a Caucasian woman .
A Marine patrol found the unidentified body in a street of the violence-torn Iraqi city .
Two Western women who also have Iraqi citizenship are known to have been kidnapped in Iraq .
Both have been missing since separate abductions last month .
They are British aid worker Margaret Hassan and Teresa Borcz , a native of Poland .
A spokesman for the African Union says all 38 peacekeepers who were kidnapped in Sudan 's troubled Darfur region have been released .
The spokesman said the hostages were released on Monday following a shootout between rival groups .
The peacekeepers were abducted Sunday in the town of Tine near Sudan 's border with Chad .
A dissident faction of Darfur 's rebel Justice and Equality Movement has been blamed for the kidnappings .
The kidnappings took place a day after two AU peacekeepers and two civilian contractors were killed in an ambush blamed on the main Darfur rebel group , the Sudan Liberation Army .
United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan says attacks by rebels groups and criminal activity in Darfur have created a very dangerous situation for humanitarian workers .
He warned the government and rebels continued violence will impede humanitarian aid .
President Bush is to host Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas October 20 at the White House .
White House spokesman Scott McClellan said in a statement Friday that Mr. Bush looks forward to discussing Palestinian efforts to improve governance , revive the economy , institute security reform , and fight terror .
Mr. McClellan said the leaders will discuss a wide range of other bilateral and regional issues .
The United States is making public and diplomatic appeals to Israel and the Palestinians to end the violence that has sent regional tensions soaring only weeks after Israel 's Gaza withdrawal .
The Indian cricket board has delayed the departure of its team for a test and limited-over series in Bangladesh , after a little-known militant group threatened to kill the Indian players .
In a letter mailed Thursday , a group calling itself Harkat-Ul-Zihad threatened to kill the Indians to avenge the deaths of Muslims killed during communal riots in the Indian state of Gujarat in 2002 .
Indian cricket board president Ranbir Singh Mahendra said Sunday that the team , which had been scheduled to leave Tuesday , would not leave before Wednesday after receiving an advisory from the government .
He said the government is taking the threat seriously and the tour 's fate will be decided by the security delegation , which arrives in Dhaka on Monday .
The Indian cricketers had been slated to depart from the eastern city of Calcutta for Bangladesh on Tuesday to play two tests and three one-dayers .
Ukrainian opposition leader Yulia Tymoshenko says she believes Viktor Yushchenko will nominate her as prime minister .
Ms. Tymoshenko , a top ally of the president-elect , said in Kiev Saturday that a written agreement with Mr. Yushchenko last year promised her the post .
She was a central figure in last year 's massive protests in Kiev against a flawed November presidential run-off vote .
Election officials had declared then-Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych the winner of that balloting , but the Supreme Court threw out the results because of fraud and it ordered a December re-run .
Several other people have been named as possible candidates for prime minister , including parliamentarian Petro Poroshenko .
Ukraine 's Supreme Court begins hearings Monday on an election challenge by Mr. Yanukovych , who is alleging fraud in the December 26 re-run vote .
In U.S. politics , there are mounting calls for Senator Hillary Clinton to end her campaign for the Democratic Party 's presidential nomination .
Mathematically , observers say Clinton can not catch up with rival Senator Barack Obama in pledged delegates .
And prominent Democratic Party officials fear that an acrimonious fight between Clinton and Obama could lead to depressed turnout among Democratic voters in the general election .
But Clinton finds a strong defense from women 's rights activists who do not want her to quit the race .
VOA 's Leta Hong Fincher has more .
Witnesses say gunmen have opened fire on the motorcade of Palestinian Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh .
Palestinian officials say Mr. Haniyeh was not hurt in the attack Friday in Gaza .
The incident comes amid a power struggle between the ruling group Hamas of Prime Minister Haniyeh and the more moderate Fatah party of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas .
The Associated Press reported that disgruntled relatives of a Fatah activist killed in recent fighting with Hamas were responsible for the attack .
The leader of Cyprus ' Orthodox Church has warned clerics critical of an upcoming visit by Pope Benedict that they must show the pontiff respect .
Archbishop Chrysostomos said Tuesday that freedom of expression is allowed in the Orthodox Church , but that clerics must not offend a guest like the Pope .
Pope Benedict XVI is scheduled to visit Cyprus in early June at the invitation of Cypriot President Dimitris Christofias .
Several clerics have threatened to boycott the Pope 's visit .
One bishop told a Cypriot newspaper that the pope is a heretic and that it would be better if he did not visit .
Most Greek Cypriots are followers of the Greek Orthodox Church , which split with the Roman Catholic Church in the 11th century , but the island has a small Catholic community .
India 's government plans to spend nearly $ 13 million to create a special force to protect the endangered tiger population .
Finance Minister P. Chidambaram announced to parliament Friday that the money will be used to raise , arm and deploy a special tiger protection force .
A recent survey found India 's tiger population has declined to just over 1,400 from 3,600 in 2002 .
Chidambaram said the number should ring an alarm bell and that the tiger is under grave threat .
India 's government last month pledged to spend $ 150 million to create new tiger reserves and shift villages and tribal communities out of tiger habitats .
Officials have also opened a national wildlife crime bureau to counter the poaching of tigers and other endangered animals .
Tiger hunting is illegal worldwide .
Poachers often sell tiger skins and other body parts to China for use in traditional medicine .
Leaders of rival Palestinian factions Fatah and Hamas have opened talks in Saudi Arabia in efforts to end a deadly power struggle and form a unity government .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas of Fatah , Hamas ' exiled political chief Khaled Mashaal and Palestinian Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh are meeting in the Muslim holy city of Mecca .
Tuesday , the rival Palestinian leaders met separately with Saudi Arabia 's King Abdullah .
The Saudi monarch says he hopes the Palestinians will reach an agreement to " stop the bloodshed . "
Fighting between Hamas and Fatah erupted in December .
More than 90 Palestinians have been killed in street battles since then .
Fatah and Hamas have been locked in a power struggle since parliamentary elections in the West Bank and Gaza Strip brought Hamas to power last year .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has rejected charges he made anti-Semitic remarks last month .
Speaking to the Venezuelan parliament Friday , President Chavez said a call for an apology by the U.S.-based Simon Wiesenthal Center is part of what he called an " imperialist campaign . "
The Wiesenthal Center had asked Mr. Chavez to apologize for comments he made in a Christmas Eve speech regarding , " descendants of those who crucified Christ " and those who " took the world 's riches for themselves . "
A group of Venezuelan Jewish leaders on Friday defended the president and criticized the Wiesenthal Center for speaking out without consulting the Venezuelan Jewish community .
The group says Mr. Chavez did not specifically target Jews in his speech .
The group also said the world 's Jews must learn to work together .
Syria 's ruling Baath party has endorsed political and security reforms that include relaxing the country 's long-standing state of emergency laws .
Other recommendations include allowing greater media freedoms , more political parties and provisions for addressing grievances of the country 's Kurdish community , which has long complained of discrimination .
The party recommendations were broadcast Thursday on Syrian state news media .
They are expected to be voted on by the full party congress later today , but are still a long way from being implemented by parliament .
Analysts say it could take more than a year for the recommendations to take effect , and that they could be changed before then .
The Baath Party has held power since 1963 , and comes under frequent criticism for alleged human rights violations and repressive emergency laws .
China 's official news agency says 96 miners are missing following an explosion at a coal mine in the country 's northern province of Hebei .
In the country 's latest mine accident , Xinhua said some 123 people were underground when the blast occurred , but 27 later escaped .
Overall , at least 171 people have died in Chinese mine accidents in the last two weeks .
At a coal mine in Henan province , officials said divers would search flooded mine shafts for 42 workers missing since Friday when a nearby river overflowed .
Attempts to pump water out of the mine have been unsuccessful .
China 's mines are the deadliest in the world , with thousands of miners killed each year .
The recent series of deadly accidents .
Colombian security forces say they are investigating an alleged attempt to kill President Alvaro Uribe after an explosion in a building close to an airport , shortly before the president 's arrival there .
Officials say the blast occurred Thursday in the city Neiva about 230 kilometers south of Bogota .
They found what appeared to be a homemade rocket and two grenades .
The officials believe the devices exploded prematurely and suspect the rebel Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , FARC , may be behind the alleged plot .
President Uribe later arrived safely at the airport .
With the support of the United States , Mr. Uribe is waging a campaign against armed insurgents in Colombia .
A Kenyan minister personally intervened to help police rescue five singers who say they were being held against their will in a Nairobi nightclub .
Kenyan police say Immigration Minister Jebii Kilimo received a text message about the women on her mobile phone , and alerted police , who raided the nightclub late Tuesday and rescued the singers .
The five Indian women claimed their travel documents had been confiscated when they arrived in Kenya .
They say they were forced to sing in the club , and were locked up during the day .
Authorities say Ms. Kilimo took the women to an unknown destination for safe custody .
Kenyan police are investigating the incident .
Pope Benedict XVI has extended greetings to Orthodox Christians as they celebrate Christmas Eve on the Julian calendar .
The pontiff made his comment Friday to thousands of pilgrims gathered in Saint Peter 's Square as Roman Catholics celebrated the feast of the Epiphany saying the light of Christianity continues to spread .
In Moscow , the head of the Russian Orthodox Church , Patriarch Alexy , urged believers to mark Christmas with good deeds .
Russia 's Itar-Tass news agency says he urged the faithful to pool their efforts to allow the joy of Christmas to enter every home .
Russia 's Orthodox Church did not accept the " new " calendar introduced by Pope Gregory XII in 1582 , and celebrates Christmas about two weeks later than most Christians .
Russian President Vladimir Putin attended a Christmas Eve service at a cathedral in the Siberian city of Yakutsk .
The head of Cuba 's parliament is offering to support Iran in its fight to develop nuclear energy within Iranian borders .
Speaker of parliament Ricardo Alarcon voiced solidarity Thursday in a meeting with the visiting speaker of Iran 's parliament , Gholam Ali Haddad Adel .
Iran resumed enrichment of uranium for nuclear fuel earlier this week , despite international pressure against the move .
Haddad Adel is on a two-day visit to Cuba after spending Wednesday in Venezuela , where he thanked the government for its support on nuclear issues .
Before leaving Cuba , he is expected to meet with Cuban Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Roque and Vice President Carlos Lage .
Venezuela and Cuba have both opposed a move by the U.N. nuclear agency to report Iran as noncompliant with atomic energy regulations .
China 's minister for Taiwan affairs arrives in Washington Tuesday for talks with U.S. officials .
A U.S. State Department spokesman says Chen Yunlin will meet with Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage and other officials for talks on a variety of issues between China and Taiwan , including China 's proposed anti-secessionist law .
China says the sole purpose of the legislation , to be considered by the country 's parliament in March , is to contain Taiwan 's separatist forces and promote peace and stability in the region .
Taiwan says the measure is aimed at suppressing the island .
China considers Taiwan part of its territory and has threatened to take the island by force if it makes moves toward independence .
Russian news reports say a court ruled Monday that Mikhail Khodorkovsky and his business partner are guilty of embezzling property .
The verdict means the two have been found guilty of stealing oil from Khodorkovsky 's now-defunct company Yukos .
The judge has yet to announce a sentence .
Former chief executive of Yukos , Khodorkovsky - once Russia 's richest man - and his partner , Platon Lebedev , are accused of embezzling 350 million tons of oil and laundering about $ 25 billion in proceeds .
Both defendants deny the charges , saying they were framed for opposing Kremlin policies .
Khodorkovsky is currently nearing the end of an 8-year sentence for fraud and tax evasion .
The widow of Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl has sued al-Qaida , other radical groups and one of Pakistan 's largest banks , blaming them for the torture and murder of her husband .
In her lawsuit , Mariane Pearl alleges Habib Bank Limited knowingly provided financial services to charities linked to extremist groups .
It says with the bank 's backing , terrorists kidnapped , tortured and beheaded Daniel Pearl and broadcast the images .
The suit seeks an unspecified amount of money .
Daniel Pearl was the South Asia bureau chief of the Journal when he was kidnapped in the Pakistani city of Karachi in January 2002 while seeking an interview with suspected Islamist militants .
A videotape of Pearl 's killing was sent to the U.S. embassy in Karachi .
British-born militant Omar Sheikh and three other men have been convicted of his murder .
The Palestinian parliament has approved the government proposed by Hamas , clearing the way for the Islamic militant group to take office .
Lawmakers voted on the Cabinet Tuesday , one day after Prime Minister-designate Ismail Haniyeh presented his government .
The approval was expected because Hamas holds a majority in the parliament .
On Monday , Mr. Haniyeh called on the Quartet of mediators - the United States , the European Union , Russia and the United Nations - to help reach peace in the Middle East .
But he added his militant group will not disarm or recognize Israel .
U.S. State Department spokesman Sean McCormack says Hamas must take those steps before it can take part in talks .
The U.S. Senate Thursday confirmed General David Petraeus as the country 's top military commander in the Middle East .
Lawmakers voted 95 - 2 to make General Petraeus the new leader of the U.S. Central Command , which oversees American forces in the Middle East , East Africa and Central Asia .
The Senate is expected to approve the nomination of Lt. General Raymond Odierno to replace Petraeus as the top U.S. commander in Iraq .
General Petraeus helped quell growing disapproval of the war in Iraq by providing Congress with progress reports and warning that the sudden withdrawal of U.S. troops could plunge Iraq into chaos and reverse progress that had been made .
During his confirmation hearings in May , General Petraeus said he expected to recommend further troop withdrawals before leaving his post in September .
The recommendation would follow a 45-day assessment period over coming months .
The prime ministers of Ireland and Britain have presented Catholic leaders meeting in Dublin and Protestant leaders in London a blueprint aimed at breaking the deadlock on Northern Ireland power-sharing .
The plan offered Wednesday by British Prime Minister Tony Blair and Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern includes a commitment by the Irish Republican Army to permit Catholic and Protestant clerics to witness the organization 's disarmament .
The IRA proposal falls short of the detailed arms inventory sought by hard-line Protestants but opposed by the Catholic Sinn Fein party .
The two prime ministers have given the Northern Ireland adversaries one week to respond in a first step toward a return to the power-sharing arrangement created under the 1998 Good Friday peace accord .
That agreement was abandoned two years ago after Protestant lawmakers accused their Sinn Fein counterparts of spying .
British prime minister says it wants other allies - not including the United States - to send another 5,000 troops as well .
The White House says President Bush will return to the stricken Gulf Coast Sunday - this time for an overnight visit in Louisiana .
Mr. Bush has received increasing criticism for the government response to the national disaster wrought by Hurricane Katrina .
White House spokesman Scott McClellan said Friday the president is still looking at ideas for a federal " czar " to coordinate relief efforts .
Mr. Bush thanked 100 countries around the world for their offers of assistance and support , singling out Afghanistan and Sri Lanka .
In New Orleans , authorities are stepping up pressure on residents who have refused to leave the devastated city to get out now .
Thousands of police and National Guard troops are going from house to house , trying to make everyone leave and marking homes where they find bodies .
An estimate 5,000 to 10,000 residents remain in New Orleans , despite contaminated floodwaters and several raging fires .
A United Nations spokesman has condemned the use of violence in the run-up to the Democratic Republic of Congo 's elections .
Spokesman Jean-Tobie Okala in Kinshasa says at least four people died Monday , including one National Army soldier , when heavily armed gunmen opened fire on a political rally in Congo 's North Kivu province .
At least six people were seriously injured in the attack .
The identity of the gunmen is unknown .
Speaking to VOA , Okala said the U.N. condemns the use of violence to , " push people around ahead of the election . "
Many opposition groups have accused the government of incumbent president Joseph Kabila of trying to gain an unfair advantage in the July 30 polls .
Some international election monitors warn the government is threatening the fairness of the electoral process through unjustified arrests and intimidation .
U.S. military officials have announced they are delaying the trial of an Australian man accused of fighting for Afghanistan 's ousted Taleban regime .
The presiding officer , Colonel Peter Brownback , granted the delay Wednesday to allow for what he called a full and fair trial of Australian David Hicks .
Mr. Hicks has been detained at Guantanamo Bay since he was captured in late 2001 .
Officials said the trial has been moved to March 15 from its originally scheduled date of January 10 .
David Hicks was among the first of the detainees at Guantanamo to be arraigned before a military tribunal .
He has pleaded not guilty to charges of aiding the enemy , conspiracy to commit war crimes and attempted murder while fighting alongside the Taleban .
Mr. Hicks ' father , Terry , welcomed the delay , saying the defense needs more time to plan its case .
Major oil companies have been reporting sharp increases in profits this week , sparking calls from some U.S. politicians for an investigation , a possible tax hike on profits , and new refinery construction to ease supply problems that boosted energy prices to record levels .
The latest third quarter profit report came from Chevron on Friday , showing a $ 3.6 billion net income , and a 12-percent hike in profit .
Earlier , oil giant ExxonMobil showed a 75 percent profit hike and a nearly $ 10 billion net .
U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist , a Republican , has asked colleagues to question top oil company executives at congressional hearings .
Democratic Senator Hillary Clinton criticized Republicans for opposing a plan to help the poor pay heating bills , and urged oil companies to invest in new energy technologies .
Ecuador 's president , Rafael Correa , is set to travel to Saudi Arabia this week for the upcoming OPEC summit , 15 years after the country left the international oil cartel .
OPEC countries ' heads of states will meet in the Saudi capital , Riyadh , on Saturday November 17 for the two-day summit .
Ecuador left OPEC in 1992 , but officials announced last month the country would officially rejoin the cartel at its next summit .
Ecuador produces more than 5,00,000 barrels of crude oil a day , making it the fifth largest producer in South America .
Venezuela is the only other Latin American country in OPEC .
A Russian rights group says at least 2.5 million children in Russia are homeless .
The chairman of the group - known as " The Children are Russia 's Future " told reporters Wednesday over 30,000 children and teenagers go missing every year in Russia .
He also said over the past five years Russian authorities have uncovered 190 networks trafficking children .
Saturday , March 8th is International Women 's Day , a day to celebrate the economic , political and social achievements of women .
One woman who has been an inspiration for women in Afghanistan is Massouda Jalal , who ran for the nation 's highest office in its first presidential election in October 2004 .
Although Jalal attracted enthusiastic and widespread support , Afghanistan 's current President Hamid Karzai ultimately defeated her .
Now a new documentary film called " Frontrunner " is re-examining Massouda Jalal 's presidential run .
As VOA 's George Dwyer reports the film is offering viewers some important insights , about personal courage and political transformation .
Jim Bertel narrates .
The new head of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency has told employees to expect more changes in the agency 's organization and personnel .
CIA Director Porter Goss sent out an e-mail message Monday , a few hours after two top CIA officials resigned .
The officials , Deputy Director for Operations Stephen Kappes and his deputy Michael Sulik , had reportedly clashed with aides that Mr. Goss brought with him from Congress , where he chaired the House of Representatives Intelligence Committee .
Two other top CIA officials announced their resignations last week .
In his e-mail , Mr. Goss appeared to rebut charges from Democrats that he has a partisan agenda favoring President Bush .
He told employees to " let the facts alone speak to the policymakers . "
The president named Mr. Goss to head the CIA in August , in part to reform the agency many have criticized as ill equipped to fight the war on terror .
In National Football League action Monday night , Denver 's Mike Anderson scored on a 44-yard touchdown run and Rod Smith reached a career milestone as the host Broncos rolled over the Kansas City Chiefs 30-Oct .
Smith , who caught a touchdown , finished with seven catches for 80 yards , putting him over 10,000 receiving yards for his career .
He is the 24th player in league history to reach the mark and first undrafted player to do so .
Denver quarterback Jake Plummer also scored on a one-yard touchdown run and kicker Jason Elam kicked three field goals .
Kansas City 's lone touchdown came with two minutes to go , a pass from quarterback Trent Green to receiver Samie Parker .
It was Green 's first touchdown pass of the season .
Israel 's top general has announced the military will investigate allegations that Israeli soldiers abused and photographed the bodies of Palestinian suicide bombers and those killed during Israeli military operations .
Lieutenant General Moshe Yaalon made the announcement Friday , responding to abuse charges in Israel 's largest selling newspaper , Yediot Aharonot .
General Yaalon condemned the alleged abuses and said maintaining the army 's ethical strength is as important as sustaining its military power .
The newspaper 's report included soldiers ' accounts of several incidents , including one in which troops put a cigarette in the mouth of a dead suicide bomber and then posed for photographs with the corpse .
Another incident details the shooting death of an apparently unarmed Palestinian man , whose remains were then strapped to the hood of a jeep and driven back to base .
North Korea released a South Korean fishing boat and its seven-man crew Tuesday , after asking South Korea for a shipment of rice , cement and heavy equipment to help it recover from recent flooding .
Pyongyang announced on Monday that it would free the squid-fishing boat and its crew of four South Koreans and three Chinese seized a month ago for alleged illegal fishing .
North Korea called the release a " humanitarian " gesture .
South Korean media said Tuesday that freeing the ship and its crew was a step toward receiving food aid .
The North 's aid request came after Seoul offered last week to provide $ 8.5 million in emergency aid , including food , relief materials and first aid kits .
That offer did not include rice or construction equipment and supplies .
The Unification Ministry said Tuesday that the South Korean government is reviewing the request .
The so-called " peace bridge " linking Indian and Pakistani portions of Kashmir has been reopened after parts badly damaged in last month 's earthquake were repaired .
An Indian army spokesman says the reopening has enabled faster delivery of relief supplies to villages on the Pakistani side that were flattened by the earthquake .
He said the final stretch of the road -- between the town of Uri in India and the Kaman Post crossing point on the military Line of Control -- was cleared Thursday .
Last month , India and Pakistan decided to open five check points along the de~facto border , including at Kaman Post , to hasten relief efforts for quake victims .
As part of an ongoing peace process between the two arch-rivals , the highway was re-opened six months ago after nearly 60 years to relaunch a bus service connecting the two Kashmiri capitals , Srinagar and Muzaffarabad .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has called for expansion of ties between his country and Iraq following a meeting with Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki .
Iran 's state news agency ( IRNA ) reports that President Ahmadinejad said stronger relations between the two nations will help Iraq 's development and stability .
The two leaders met late Sunday as part of Mr. Maliki 's state visit to Iran , his third since he became prime minister .
President Ahmadinejad made a landmark visit to Iraq in March .
Earlier today , the Iraqi prime minister met with Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki and he assured Tehran that a proposed U.S.-Iraq security agreement will not harm Iran .
The comment comes as U.S. and Iraqi officials discuss a security deal that would allow American forces to remain in Iraq beyond December 31st , when their U.N. mandate expires .
Iran opposes such an agreement .
The sister of a Buddhist monk imprisoned by Burma 's military rulers for pro-democracy activities says her brother is on a hunger strike .
Khin Thu Htay tells VOA Burmese service that monk Ashin Gambira began the hunger strike 10 days ago after prison authorities blocked him from seeing her and other family members .
She says the family tried to visit him at a prison in the central region of Mandalay .
The sister says Burmese authorities told her that several days later , Gambira was transferred to another prison Hkamti in a remote part of the northwestern Sagaing region .
Courts in military-run Burma sentenced the monk last year to 68 years in prison for leading pro-democracy protests in 2007 .
Burmese citizens began weeks of mass protests against the military in June 2007 before authorities crushed the demonstrations .
The United Nations says at least 31 people were killed and thousands more were detained in the crackdown .
The leader of Venezuela 's ruling party is claiming victory in Sunday 's parliamentary elections .
Willian Lara says President Hugo Chavez 's Fifth Republic Movement won 114 seats in the 167-seat National Assembly .
Mr. Lara also says the rest of the Assembly 's contested seats will go to parties supportive of Mr. Chavez .
Official results have yet to be announced .
Venezuela 's election chief estimates voter turnout at just 25 percent .
Most opposition parties boycotted the election , accusing electoral officials of manipulating electronic voting machines and favoring the president .
Mr. Chavez is accusing the United States of orchestrating the boycott .
Washington denies the charges .
Meanwhile , officials say an explosion that damaged an oil pipeline in western Venezuelan state of Zulia late Saturday was an attempt to disrupt the elections .
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf has canceled a scheduled trip to China for the opening of the Olympic games .
Pakistan 's Foreign Ministry spokesman Mohammad Sadiq confirmed the cancellation Wednesday , but did not give an explanation .
President Musharraf had planned to attend the opening ceremony in Beijing and meet with Chinese leaders .
The change in plans comes as leaders of Pakistan 's ruling coalition met to discuss a number of issues , including the possible impeachment of Mr. Musharraf .
Pakistani People 's Party leader Asif Ali Zardari and former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif spoke Tuesday , and also discussed restoring the country 's judiciary .
They are scheduled to meet again today .
Mr. Musharraf declared a state of emergency last November and purged the Supreme Court , in order to halt any legal challenges to his presidency .
Nepal 's government says it has detained 43 people , top political leaders and other activists , for their " own personal safety " as well as to maintain law and order .
A Home Ministry statement Wednesday says 25 of the detainees are being held in government centers and the rest , under house arrest .
Tuesday , nine United Nations human rights investigators called on Nepal 's King Gyanendra to restore democracy in the country .
The King dissolved the constitutional government , seized power , and declared a nationwide state of emergency on February first .
The monarch and his hand-picked government curtailed most civil rights , including criticism of security forces , and banned protest rallies .
Nepal 's human rights groups say they plan to defy the ban by holding a protest demonstration on Thursday .
A Jordanian military court has sentenced to jail 10 Islamic militants for plotting attacks on U.S. forces in Jordan and Iraq .
The court handed out prison terms of two to five years .
At least one of those found guilty has been linked to al-Qaida in Iraq leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi .
Ten other suspects , including a Syrian national , were found not-guilty .
The 17 were rounded up in 2005 .
They faced several charges , including plotting to attack U.S. troops who were training Iraqi forces in Jordan at the time .
They were also accused of plotting activity to undermine Jordan 's relations with another country .
Up to 140 people are feared dead in the Democratic Republic of Congo , after a crowded river boat overturned .
Officials said Thursday that the accident occurred on the Congo River in the western province of Bandundu .
Information Minister Lambert Mende said at least 80 people are confirmed dead , while local officials put the death toll higher .
About 200 people were believed to be on the boat , which was also carrying merchandise from Bandundu to the capital , Kinshasa .
Officials say the boat was overloaded and unable to navigate through rough waters .
Mende said rescuers are looking for more survivors .
Fatal boat accidents are common in the DRC , where a lack of paved roads and the high cost of air travel forces many people to travel by boat , even if they do not know how to swim .
The river vessels are often overcrowded and poorly maintained .
A slimy Justin Timberlake emerged victorious at the 20th annual Nickelodeon Kids ' Choice Awards .
Making good on his promise to make this year 's edition the messiest ever , the singer - who also hosted the show - was both dispenser and recipient of the signature green goo .
He took honors for Best Male Singer .
Other winners included Adam Sandler as favorite male movie star ; Dakota Fanning as favorite female movie star , and Ben Stiller , who took the evening 's top honor , the Wannabe Award .
It signifies the celebrity the youthful voters most want to emulate .
Nickelodeon says the lighthearted Kids ' Choice Awards last year received 25 million online votes .
The only African-American member of the United States Senate has begun a two-week tour of Africa .
On Sunday , Senator Barack Obama visited the South African island where Nelson Mandela was imprisioned during his long fight against apartheid .
Obama said the visit to Robben Island made him realize that everyday worries in the U.S. are " fairly trivial " compared to the struggle Mandela and other inmates went through .
Monday , Obama met with another anti-apartheid hero , South African archbishop Desmond Tutu , in Cape Town .
Obama is due to visit his father 's home country of Kenya as well as Congo and Chad during the trip .
He told reporters today that he will probably get an HIV test while in Kenya , in order to promote AIDS-prevention awareness .
Obama was elected to the U.S. Senate in November 2004 , representing the U.S. state of Illinois .
U.S. Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman says the United States will offer incentives to spur companies to construct six nuclear power plants .
Bodman Friday announced a plan that will provide risk insurance coverage against bureaucratic and legal issues that make construction of the plants more expensive .
The plan would provide up to $ 500 million in coverage for the first two plants built , and up to $ 250 million more for the next four plants .
The United States has 103 nuclear power plants in 31 states .
But a new plant has not been built since 1973 , and a partial meltdown at Pennsylvania 's Three Mile Island plant in 1979 ended plans to construct new ones .
Australian Prime Minister John Howard is brushing off criticism over a deal his government has reached with China that opens the door to a potential free trade agreement between the two nations .
Canberra granted Beijing market economy status on Monday as part of the agreement to begin free trade talks .
But a spokesman for Australia 's opposition Labor Party says Mr. Howard gave away Australia 's strongest bargaining chip in the talks .
Mr. Howard says the Labor Party is simply complaining because it has no ideas of its own to promote .
The prime minister says a new deal will not be reached until sometime next year , adding that there was goodwill on both sides , but " not that good . "
Hurricane Paula has strengthened as it threatens the Gulf Coast of Mexico and parts of Central America , forcing officials to call for the evacuation of many coastal areas .
At last report ( 1745 UTC ) , forecasters at the U.S. National Hurricane Center said Paula 's maximum sustained winds had increased from 120 kilometers to 160 kilometers an hour .
Further strengthening is expected .
The storm is about 220 kilometers southeast of the Mexican resort island of Cozumel , where hurricane warnings are in effect .
It is expected to approach the east coast of the Yucatan Peninsula late Tuesday and Wednesday .
Hurricane Paula could dump eight to 15 centimeters of rain over western and central Cuba , the Yucatan Peninsula and northern Belize , with some isolated areas receiving more than 25 centimeters .
Forecasters say the heavy rains could trigger flash flooding and mudslides in the region , especially in mountainous parts of Nicaragua and Honduras .
China has raised its estimate for economic growth in 2005 to 9.8 percent .
That is an increase of 0.4 percent from the government 's previous figure .
The new number was released Sunday by Ou Xinqian , vice minister of China 's National Development and Reform Commission .
The official Xinhua News Agency says the Commission adjusted its growth estimate because recent data shows China 's economy in 2004 was much bigger than previously thought .
Last month , the government raised its national output figure for 2004 by 16.8 percent over the original estimate .
Officials said service industries accounted for most of the revision .
The new growth estimate from Mr. Ou is the latest in a series of economic data released by Chinese officials .
China 's National Bureau of Statistics is expected to announce the final figures for 2005 in the coming weeks .
Pakistani authorities say they have arrested at least 27 suspected Taleban insurgents after a raid on a private hospital in southwestern Baluchistan province .
Local officials say initial investigation showed that the militants were brought from neighboring Afghanistan to the hospital in the provincial capital , Quetta .
They say several Taleban were being treated for wounds sustained in fighting in southern Afghanistan .
Last month , authorities in the restive Pakistani province arrested more than 200 Afghan nationals suspected of having links with Taleban militants .
Among those caught was a former commander of Taleban forces in southern Afghanistan .
The raids follow months of pressure from the Afghan government , the U.S.-led coalition and NATO forces in neighboring Afghanistan , who want Islamabad to act more forcefully against the Taleban remnants hiding in Pakistan .
Iran says it will sign a deal next week with Russia under which Moscow will provide fuel to Iran 's Bushehr nuclear power plant .
Iranian state television quotes a deputy head of Iran 's Atomic Energy Organization , Asadollah Sabouri , as saying a pact , which obligates Tehran to return spent nuclear fuel to Russia , will be signed February 26 .
Under the deal , Mr. Sabouri says Russia will provide the Bushehr plant with nuclear fuel for the next 10 years .
Moscow and Tehran have been locked in negotiations over the final disposition of spent fuel .
Russia had refused further assistance in developing the Bushehr plant until Tehran agreed to return the spent fuel , which can be used in the development of nuclear weapons .
The United States says it suspects Iran is trying to develop such weaponry , despite Tehran 's assertions its nuclear intentions are peaceful .
A Chilean appeals court has ruled former dictator Augusto Pinochet can not avoid prosecution for alleged human rights violations on health grounds .
In a unanimous ruling , the judges concluded that recent medical exams do not disqualify Pinochet , who is 90 years old , from standing trial .
The ruling clears the way for Pinochet to be brought to trial in connection with the murder of leftwing dissidents during his 17-year military rule from 1973 to 1990 .
The specific case relates to a campaign , known as " Operation Colombo , " in which 119 dissidents disappeared in 1975 and were believed killed .
It is one of several human rights cases brought against the retired general .
He and members of his family also have been charged with tax evasion and fraud stemming from his years in power .
Conservative Muslim candidates have swept elections in Saudi Arabia 's first nationwide municipal vote , giving rise to complaints that they had an unfair advantage because of religious endorsements .
Thursday 's voting in the western part of the kingdom completed the three-phase vote , which began in February .
Western region winners were announced Saturday .
In the holy city of Medina , as well as in the ultra-conservative town of Buraydah , cleric-supported candidates swept the vote .
In Jeddah , long considered one of the country 's most liberal cities , voters also chose conservatives .
Saudi men over age 21 voted for half the members of the kingdom 's municipal councils .
The government will appoint the remaining half .
India 's Tata Motors has begun removing equipment from its " cheapest car " factory in eastern India , after no resolution in a land dispute .
A Tata spokesman would not comment Wednesday , but there are reports that the equipment is being moved from the Singur plant in West Bengal state to Tata 's existing facility in the northern state of Uttarakhand .
The Tata plant was set to manufacture what is being called the world 's cheapest car - the " Nano . "
Work has been shut down for several weeks after deadly protests by the West Bengal 's opposition party , which says that local villagers were unfairly compensated for their land , that was used to build the factory .
Efforts to resolve the standoff have failed , with protesters recently rejecting a government offer to return 30 hectares of land .
Tata officials have said they are considering moving the plant out of West Bengal .
Zimbabwe has condemned opposition activists for stamping protest messages on the country 's bank notes .
Deputy Finance Minister David Chapfika warned Wednesday the government would punish those behind the vandalism .
No group has claimed responsibility for printing the words " enough " and " get up , stand up " on some bank notes found in circulation in Zimbabwe .
Last year , officials blamed an underground rights group known as " Enough " ( Zvakwana ) for a similar campaign in which messages were printed on condom packages .
Opposition groups say the government of President Robert Mugabe has launched a new crackdown ahead of key parliamentary elections due later this year .
Tuvalu consists of a densely populated , scattered group of nine coral atolls with poor soil .
The country has no known mineral resources and few exports and is almost entirely dependent upon imported food and fuel .
Subsistence farming and fishing are the primary economic activities .
Fewer than 1,000 tourists , on average , visit Tuvalu annually .
Job opportunities are scarce and public sector workers make up most of those employed .
About 15 % of the adult male population work as seamen on merchant ships abroad , and remittances are a vital source of income contributing around $ 2 million in 2007 .
Substantial income is received annually from the Tuvalu Trust Fund ( TTF ) an international trust fund established in 1987 by Australia , NZ , and the UK and supported also by Japan and South Korea .
Thanks to wise investments and conservative withdrawals , this fund grew from an initial $ 17 million to an estimated value of $ 77 million in 2006 .
The TTF contributed nearly $ 9 million towards the government budget in 2006 and is an important cushion for meeting shortfalls in the government 's budget .
The US Government is also a major revenue source for Tuvalu because of payments from a 1988 treaty on fisheries .
In an effort to ensure financial stability and sustainability , the government is pursuing public sector reforms , including privatization of some government functions and personnel cuts .
Tuvalu also derives royalties from the lease of its " .tv " Internet domain name with revenue of more than $ 2 million in 2006 .
A minor source of government revenue comes from the sale of stamps and coins .
With merchandise exports only a fraction of merchandise imports , continued reliance must be placed on fishing and telecommunications license fees , remittances from overseas workers , official transfers , and income from overseas investments .
Growing income disparities and the vulnerability of the country to climatic change are among leading concerns for the nation .
Niue 's remoteness , as well as cultural and linguistic differences between its Polynesian inhabitants and those of the rest of the Cook Islands , have caused it to be separately administered .
The population of the island continues to drop ( from a peak of 5,200 in 1966 to an estimated 1,311 in 2011 ) with substantial emigration to New Zealand 2,400 km to the southwest .
Anguilla has few natural resources , and the economy depends heavily on luxury tourism , offshore banking , lobster fishing , and remittances from emigrants .
Increased activity in the tourism industry has spurred the growth of the construction sector contributing to economic growth .
Anguillan officials have put substantial effort into developing the offshore financial sector , which is small but growing .
In the medium term , prospects for the economy will depend largely on the tourism sector and , therefore , on revived income growth in the industrialized nations as well as on favorable weather conditions .
A former British colony , Cyprus became independent in 1960 following years of resistance to British rule .
Tensions between the Greek Cypriot majority and Turkish Cypriot minority came to a head in December 1963 , when violence broke out in the capital of Nicosia .
Despite the deployment of UN peacekeepers in 1964 , sporadic intercommunal violence continued forcing most Turkish Cypriots into enclaves throughout the island .
In 1974 , a Greek Government-sponsored attempt to seize control of Cyprus was met by military intervention from Turkey , which soon controlled more than a third of the island .
In 1983 , the Turkish Cypriot-occupied area declared itself the " Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus " ( " TRNC " ) , but it is recognized only by Turkey .
The election of a new Cypriot president in 2008 served as the impetus for the UN to encourage both the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities to reopen unification negotiations .
In September 2008 , the leaders of the two communities began negotiations under UN auspices aimed at reuniting the divided island ; the talks remain ongoing .
The entire island entered the EU on 1 May 2004 , although the EU acquis - the body of common rights and obligations - applies only to the areas under the internationally recognized government , and is suspended in the areas administered by Turkish Cypriots .
However , individual Turkish Cypriots able to document their eligibility for Republic of Cyprus citizenship legally enjoy the same rights accorded to other citizens of European Union states .
Once the center of power for the large Austro-Hungarian Empire , Austria was reduced to a small republic after its defeat in World War I .
Following annexation by Nazi Germany in 1938 and subsequent occupation by the victorious Allies in 1945 , Austria 's status remained unclear for a decade .
A State Treaty signed in 1955 ended the occupation , recognized Austria 's independence , and forbade unification with Germany .
A constitutional law that same year declared the country 's " perpetual neutrality " as a condition for Soviet military withdrawal .
The Soviet Union 's collapse in 1991 and Austria 's entry into the European Union in 1995 have altered the meaning of this neutrality .
A prosperous , democratic country , Austria entered the EU Economic and Monetary Union in 1999 .
A FISHERMAN skilled in music took his flute and his nets to the seashore .
Standing on a projecting rock , he played several tunes in the hope that the fish , attracted by his melody , would of their own accord dance into his net , which he had placed below .
At last , having long waited in vain , he laid aside his flute , and casting his net into the sea , made an excellent haul of fish .
When he saw them leaping about in the net upon the rock he said : " O you most perverse creatures , when I piped you would not dance , but now that I have ceased you do so merrily . "
A PIGEON , oppressed by excessive thirst , saw a goblet of water painted on a signboard .
Not supposing it to be only a picture , she flew towards it with a loud whir and unwittingly dashed against the signboard , jarring herself terribly .
Having broken her wings by the blow , she fell to the ground , and was caught by one of the bystanders .
Zeal should not outrun discretion .
A LION who had caught a Mouse was about to kill him , when the Mouse said :
" If you will spare my life , I will do as much for you some day . "
The Lion , good-naturedly let him go .
It happened shortly afterwards that the Lion was caught by some hunters and bound with cords .
The Mouse , passing that way , and seeing that his benefactor was helpless , gnawed off his tail .
12-year-old Jeff Maier reached out and caught a fly ball at the Yankees-Orioles game , causing Baltimore to lose the first game of the playoffs .
This means that Maier has already caught more fly balls than the entire Mets outfield ...
Christmas was over .
Santa and his reindeer finally had a chance to rest .
And they deserved it .
They had done a good job .
Rudolph had a chance to do something he had wanted to do for a long time .
He made an appointment with a plastic surgeon because he was so sensitive about his looks .
However it was n't his glowing proboscis that he wanted changed .
He was proud of his nose and the help he had given Santa because of it .
No , he was sensitive about his long ears which were much more prominent than the ears of the average reindeer , or bear for that matter .
So one week after Christmas , he let the good doctor do the pinna reconstructive surgery procedure , and since that time , January 1st has been celebrated as ... New Ears Day .
The U.S. military says three American soldiers have been killed in a roadside bomb blast in northern Iraq .
The military says one soldier was also wounded in the explosion that hit their combat patrol in the town of Balad , north of Baghdad , late Wednesday .
In another development , Arab League Secretary-General Amr Moussa flew to Baghdad Thursday , - on his first visit to Iraq since the 2003 U.S. - led invasion .
Mr. Moussa is to hold talks with senior Iraqi leaders and also meet the country 's most influential Shi'ite cleric , Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani .
The 34-member Arab League has been criticized for not strongly condemning the insurgency in Iraq and also for not taking a more active role in supporting the post-Saddam Iraqi government .
Pakistani police say multiple gas cylinder explosions tore through a building in the city of Lahore , killing at least 24 people and injuring many more .
Witnesses say there were about 40 residents in the collapsed building , and that most were asleep when the blasts occurred Tuesday morning .
Officials say rescue workers were searching for people who were believed trapped in the rubble of the multi-story structure .
Police say the building had a gas cylinder storage area and an ice cream factory on the ground floor .
Several near-by buildings and a number of cars were also damaged .
The city of Washington is widely known for a keen appreciation of the social arts :
Politics , for example or the fine art of diplomacy .
But an important development in the history of the visual arts had its origins here as well .
It is called the " Color Field " movement , and it is the subject of a major new exhibition now underway in the nation 's capital .
As VOA 's George Dwyer reports , the passing of years appears to have cast this colorful school of painting in a whole new light .
The host Italian Olympic team has suffered a blow just days before the start of the Turin Games , with the loss of two ski jumpers .
Marco Beltrame and Stefano Chiapolino were seriously injured Tuesday during pre-Olympic training at Predazzo .
The 19-year-old Beltrame was admitted to a local hospital , in Belluno where he had his spleen removed .
Chiapolino was treated at another hospital , in Cavalese .
The 20-year-old Olympic teammate had several small fractures to his face and a slight concussion .
With the loss of two of its five ski jumpers , the Italian Olympic team will not be able to field a four-person squad in the team event on February 20 .
Opening ceremonies for the Games are Friday .
The Olympics run through February 26 .
Pakistani officials say heavy rains led to the deaths of 228 people in the southern city of Karachi on Saturday .
Officials had earlier said 43 people were killed in the storm , however , the number increased when the bodies of 185 more victims were identified Sunday .
Many people were killed when the roofs and walls of their homes collapsed .
Others were killed or injured by power lines downed in the storm .
Weather forecasters expect the heavy rains to continue through Monday .
Former U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan has recommended the United Nations extend its mission in Haiti through February 2008 .
In a report issued Tuesday , Mr. Annan said the primary responsibility for socio-economic development and building security is with Haiti 's leadership and people .
But he said international help remains essential .
Meanwhile , the Haitian-born spokeswoman for new U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon tells the Associated Press she hopes to use her office to publicize human rights abuses around the world , but especially in her home country .
Former broadcast journalist Michele Montas and her husband , Jean Dominique , were persecuted in Haiti for reports critical of the government .
Dominique was assassinated in 2000 .
Montas survived two attempts on her life before going into exile .
She told the Associated Press she remains mindful of her Haitian identity and hopes to return to her homeland someday .
But she said that is not possible now .
South Africa 's main labor federation has again criticized Zimbabwe 's government for organizing elections it says will not be free and fair .
The Congress of South African Trade Unions , COSATU , says it will hold a series of protests ahead of the March 31 poll , aimed to draw attention to alleged problems .
The group 's general secretary , Zwelinzima Vavi , says the result of the parliamentary vote is already decided , because President Robert Mugabe has skewed conditions in favor of his party .
South African officials have warned they will not tolerate illegal protests by the union group .
Labor officials say they are currently seeking permits for marches and a planned blockade of traffic along the border with Zimbabwe .
Earlier this year , Zimbabwe officials refused entry to a COSATU delegation planning to study voting conditions in the country .
Pakistan 's election commission has announced the final list of three candidates for the upcoming presidential election .
The commission said Saturday regional and national lawmakers will be able to choose from Pakistan Peoples Party co-chairman Asif Ali Zardari , retired judge Said-uz Zaman Siddiqui and Mushahid Hussain Sayed .
Siddiqui is aligned with the Pakistan Muslim League-N party of former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif , while Sayed represents the party of former President Pervez Musharraf .
Mr. Musharraf resigned last week following a series of carefully orchestrated no-confidence votes in parliament .
He lost public support after he declared a state of emergency and fired several judges who planned to rule on the legitimacy of his presidency .
The election is set for September 6 .
Russian bombers left Venezuela , one week after arriving in the South American country to conduct military exercises .
The Russian news agency Itar-Tass reports that the two strategic bombers took off from Caracas in the early morning hours Thursday .
While in the region , the bombers conducted air patrol flights over neutral waters in the Caribbean .
Itar-Tass says the bombers will patrol neutral waters in the Atlantic and North Arctic Oceans before returning to Russia on Friday .
The Tu-160 bombers arrived in Venezuela September 10 , days after Russia announced it would send a naval squadron and anti-submarine aircraft to Venezuela for possible joint military exercises in November .
Russia 's military exercises later this year would be its first major maneuvers in the Western Hemisphere since the Cold War .
A car bomb attack south of the Iraqi capital has killed at least 10 people , while the death toll from a series of coordinated blasts Thursday north of Baghdad has risen to nearly 100 .
In Friday 's attack , police say a bomb blast tore through a crowded market in the mainly Shi'ite city of Hillah .
More than 40 other people were injured in the explosion .
Meanwhile , hospital officials said the death toll from three nearly simultaneous car bomb attacks Thursday in the northern city of Balad had risen to 99 .
Al-Qaida in Iraq claimed responsibility for that attack in an unverifiable Internet statement .
The group , which is led by Abu Musab al-Zarqawi , has declared war on the country 's majority Shi'ites , ahead of the October 15 constitutional referendum .
American gymnast Shawn Johnson is expected to be one of the brightest stars at the Beijing Olympic Games later this year .
For her coaches , a trip to the summer games would be a homecoming .
Elaine Lu and producer Liu Enming have more on the aspiring Olympian 's path to the Beijing games .
The U.S. economy grew a bit faster than first estimated in the first three months of this year , but still expanded at a slow pace .
Thursday 's report from the Commerce Department puts the first quarter 's economic growth at nine-tenths of one percent .
That is three-tenths of a percent better than economists first thought , and a bit better than the growth rate for the last quarter of 2007 .
The world 's largest economy has been hurt by sagging housing market , tight credit , and soaring energy costs .
A separate government report from the Labor Department said the number of Americans signing up for unemployment assistance rose slightly last week - by 4,000 , to a total of 3,72,000 .
Bolivia 's President Evo Morales has announced that his government will take over the operations of the Chaco oil company , as part of efforts to nationalize the country 's resources .
Mr. Morales Friday visited Chaco , in which the British company BP is a majority stakeholder .
He presented the nationalization move as a gain for the Bolivian people , saying " little by little we are taking back our companies . "
The left-leaning president won election on a platform of economic reform , pledging to share the country 's energy wealth among the impoverished indigenous majority .
He has already nationalized several key energy companies .
Today 's take-over of Chaco comes just days before Bolivians vote on a new constitution backed by Mr. Morales .
A Mexican police commander has been shot to death outside his home in the northern border city of Nuevo Laredo .
Authorities say Enrique Cardenas was killed Thursday as he left home to take his young daughter to school .
They say the killing took place one day after another local police commander was ambushed and wounded by assailants who opened fire from a moving car .
Officials say at least five other police officers have been killed in Nuevo Laredo since the beginning of the year in a wave of violence attributed to drug traffickers battling for territory .
Earlier this year , the U.S. State Department issued travel alerts on Nuevo Laredo , prompting an angry response from the Mexican government .
South Korea 's foreign minister says he is willing to travel to Pyongyang if it will help bring North Korea back to international nuclear disarmament talks .
Ban Ki-moon did not say if North Korea had extended an invitation .
But he said he is willing to make the trip if his efforts will help .
Six country talks on North Korea 's nuclear program have been stalled since last November .
The United States , China , Russia , Japan and South Korea were trying to convince North Korea to abandon its nuclear program entirely .
Work toward resuming negotiations intensified last month when North Korea test-fired several missiles .
The head of the U.S. Central Bank says home prices could fall as the nation 's booming housing market inevitably slows down .
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan made the comment Saturday during concluding remarks at an economic summit in the western state of Wyoming .
He said that as the housing boom simmers down , home price increases will slow and that prices could even decrease .
One day earlier , Mr. Greenspan warned Americans not to assume that recent soaring home prices will continue forever .
He said increased buying power fueled by higher home prices could disappear if investors become cautious .
Large numbers of U.S. homeowners have taken out loans against the increased value of their homes to pay for renovations and other purchases , fueling much of the recent growth in the economy .
Afghan authorities say seven Taleban prisoners have escaped from Afghanistan 's main prison and 10 guards are being investigated for helping them break free or for negligence .
The director of Afghanistan 's prisons said Tuesday , the men broke out of Policharki Prison on the outskirts of the capital , Kabul , on Sunday .
He declined to identify the escaped prisoners , citing security reasons , but said security forces were searching for them .
Pakistani officials say suspected U.S. drone-fired missiles have struck a vehicle and a religious school building in an al-Qaida and Taliban stronghold , killing at least ten militants , including two foreigners .
The officials say the missiles hit in the Khaisor area of North Waziristan region , near the border with Afghanistan .
The victims have not yet been identified .
This is the latest of more than 40 suspected U.S. missile strikes on militant targets in northwest Pakistan over the past year .
Last week , a suspected U.S. drone ( unmanned ) aircraft fired a missile at a compound in South Waziristan , also near the Afghan border , killing at least 8 .
The United States rarely discusses the strikes , which Pakistan has criticized as counterproductive and a violation of its sovereignty .
These latest missiles hit as Pakistani security forces battle extremist militants elsewhere in northwestern Pakistan , around the Swat valley .
The head of South Africa 's football association has announced that the shoes used by the national team 's Siphiwe Tshabalala to score the first goal of the 2010 World Cup will become a " historic monument . "
SAFA chief executive Leslie Sedibe told a parliamentary committee Tuesday that the shoes will be displayed at SAFA headquarters in Johannesburg .
In a memorable start to World Cup , Tshabalala gave South Africa a 1-0 lead over Mexico in the opening match at Soccer City in Johannesburg .
The match ended in a 01-Jan draw .
Sedibe says Siphiwe Tshabalala knows those shoes do not belong to him " because of the historic symbolism they represent . "
He added that the shoes represent hope and what South Africa can deliver on a world stage .
Taiwan 's president is calling for one million of his fellow citizens to take to the streets to protest China 's new anti-secession law .
Chen Shui-bian 's criticism came Wednesday in his first public comments since China 's parliament approved a bill authorizing military force if Taipei formally declares its independence .
He says the law will only heighten tensions across the Taiwan Strait , and that only peaceful dialogue will resolve the situation .
Mr. Chen says the mass protest planned for March 26 will show the world that only Taiwan can decide its future .
The president is also calling on the European Union to reconsider its plan to lift its 15-year-old arms embargo against Beijing .
U.S. President Barack Obama has extended sanctions on Burma 's military government for another year .
Mr. Obama informed Congress of the decision Friday , saying Burma is " engaging in large-scale repression of the democratic opposition . "
He added that Burma 's actions and policies are hostile to U.S. interests , and they pose a continuing threat to U.S. national security and foreign policy .
The existing sanctions on Burma must be renewed annually .
They were set to expire next week .
The curator of the Beijing Palace Museum arrived in Taiwan Sunday to arrange a local exhibition of Chinese relics .
The four-day visit by Zheng Xinmiao follows an unprecedented visit to Beijing last month by the director of Taipei 's National Palace Museum .
Beijing has agreed to send 29 Qing Dynasty ( 1644 - 1911 ) relics to Taiwan for a joint exhibition in October .
The bulk of artifacts in Taipei 's main museum were taken from the Forbidden City by the Nationalists as they fled the Chinese mainland at the end of the civil war in 1949 .
The Taiwan museum holds around 6,50,000 items spanning 7,000 years of Chinese history .
Britain 's Court of Appeal has rejected the British government 's attempt to stop an Australian terror suspect from seeking British citizenship .
The suspect , David Hicks , is being held at the U.S. detention facility at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
Hicks ' mother was born in Britain and he has sought British citizenship hoping London would secure his release from Guantanamo , as it did for several British nationals held there .
Hicks , a convert to Islam , was captured by U.S. forces in Afghanistan in 2001 and accused of being an al Qaeda fighter .
The British government had refused his citizenship bid because of his alleged involvement with terrorism .
Britain 's High Court rejected that position in December , and the Court of Appeals upheld the decision Wednesday .
Israeli police say Prime Minister Ehud Olmert 's personal secretary has been placed under house arrest for 10 days as part of a corruption probe - the latest political scandal to rock the Jewish state .
A spokesman says Shula Zaken was among more than 15 people questioned Tuesday in an investigation into government officials accepting or giving bribes in return for tax breaks .
Tax officials were among those questioned .
Reports say Mr. Olmert has not been targeted in the probe .
The Israeli prime minister has been the subject of several previous corruption investigations but has not been charged .
President Bush will meet with British Prime Minister Tony Blair next Friday in Washington for talks on the Middle East crisis .
The White House says the two leaders will discuss efforts to secure " a lasting peace " in the region .
They will also talk about the situation in Iraq and Afghanistan , as well as efforts to stop the violence in Sudan 's Darfur region .
Also on the agenda will be Iran 's nuclear ambitions and ways to stop Tehran from getting the technology to build nuclear weapons .
The two men will also discuss ways to promote free and fair trade .
The White House announcement of the visit Friday , noted that the United States " has no closer ally and partner than the United Kingdom . "
Mr. Blair 's support for Mr. Bush 's policies , especially on Iraq , have prompted a backlash from critics in Britain .
An Israeli human rights group says Israeli authorities have allowed Jewish settlers to seize more than 400 hectares of land from Palestinian farmers by extending security barriers .
The Rights group , B'Tselem issued a report Thursday saying settlers , with government backing , installed security fences around 12 West Bank settlements , cutting off access to private land owned by Palestinians .
Israeli officials say the security zones are meant to protect Israelis from attacks .
The report notes that settlers have also used violence and systematic harassment to force Palestinian farmers from the land .
In a separate development in Gaza , Israeli military officials say two bombs exploded today near an Israeli army vehicle on patrol near the border barrier .
Nobody was injured in the blasts .
British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw has condemned the Uzbek government 's crackdown on protesters in the city of Andijon .
Speaking Sunday on the BBC , Mr. Straw said there had been a clear abuse of human rights , and urged Uzbek officials to allow foreign observers and international aid groups such as the Red Cross to survey the situation .
The Associated Press says that an Uzbek foreign ministry statement called Mr. Straw 's comments ill-informed .
Meanwhile , Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov blamed regional extremists , including Afghanistan 's Taleban , for the violence .
But the New York-based Human Rights Watch organization argues that the Uzbek government can not use the war on terror to justify shooting demonstrators protesting poverty and repression .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan says the world may soon face what he calls a " cascade " of countries acquiring nuclear weapons .
Mr. Annan says relying on the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty is not enough and proposes new , joint action , including tougher inspection rules .
His comments at a security conference in Germany Sunday come as concerns grow over North Korea and Iran 's nuclear programs .
German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer struck a tougher tone on Iran , telling the conference Tehran could be referred to the U.N. Security Council if it resumes nuclear enrichment activities .
Germany , France and Britain have been leading diplomatic efforts to persuade Iran to not develop nuclear weapons , which Tehran says it is not trying to do .
The United States has called for a tougher line with the country
China is offering Taiwan a series of trade concessions in an effort to boost public sentiment on the island in favor of reunification with the mainland .
The concessions , announced Saturday , will add four types of Taiwan-grown fruit to a list of 18 varieties that can enter China .
They will also offer a tax-free import status to 11 kinds of vegetables and some Taiwan aquatic products .
The director of China 's Taiwan Affairs Office made the announcement in Beijing at the end of a government forum on cross-straits business .
The former chairman of Taiwan 's opposition party joined the forum , but representatives of Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian were absent .
Taipei and Beijing split amid civil war in 1949 .
China considers the island part of its territory and says it must accept reunification .
Iraqi police say a suicide truck bomber has killed at least 15 people and wounded more than 20 at a police station in northern Iraq .
Police say the attack took place Sunday in the mainly Sunni town of Adwar , 20 kilometers south of Tikrit .
They say the bomber rammed a truck loaded with hay through the gate of a police station and triggered the blast outside the building .
The explosion severely damaged the building , killing and wounding policemen , prisoners and civilians .
Officials say the death toll could rise as emergency workers search through the rubble .
Elsewhere , police say gunmen killed eight border guard recruits today as they were riding a minibus near the town of Rabiyaa in northwestern Iraq , near the Syrian frontier .
In another development , the U.S. military says an American soldier was killed today in a gun battle with insurgents in Diyala province , northeast of Baghdad .
Israeli forces have carried out air strikes on a vehicle and buildings linked to the Palestinian militant group , the al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades .
Three Palestinian men were killed in a Gaza City attack while Israeli aircraft and artillery also targeted areas near the northern Gaza town of Beit Hanoun .
Israel launched the strikes Sunday after Palestinians fired rockets from Gaza into southern Israel on Friday .
Elsewhere , Israeli police say a knife-wielding Palestinian man killed a woman and wounded five other passengers on a bus near Tel Aviv .
Authorities say the man entered Israel from the West Bank .
Tensions between Israel and the Palestinians have risen in recent days after Israel killed a top commander of the Islamic Jihad militant group .
Pakistani security forces have detained at least 25 suspected Islamic militants in a series of raids linked to the July 7 London suicide bombings .
Officials in Punjab province say members of outlawed Islamist groups were among the people detained overnight in the cities of Dera Ghazi Khan , Multan , Faisalabad and Khushab .
They say the suspects are being questioned for possible links with three of the four London bombers - British-born Muslims of Pakistani origin who had visited Pakistan in the past year .
On Monday , Pakistani immigration officials released photographs of the three -
Mohammad Sidique Khan , Shehzad Tanweer and Hasib Hussain - taken upon their arrival in Karachi .
There was no official confirmation of reports that at least one of the bombers visited Islamic religious schools during the visits .
Clashes between Maoist militants and government forces in western Nepal have killed at least 24 people , as a rebel-blockade shut down major highways in the capital city .
Army officials say rebels attacked patrols in a remote area in far-western Nepal .
Officials said at least 22 guerrillas and two soldiers were killed in the fighting .
In the capital Kathmandu , Maoist rebels Thursday blocked major roads in and out of the city to protest alleged abuses by security forces .
The rebels are demanding information about their missing activists who , they say , disappeared while in custody .
A similar rebel road-block in Kathmandu for a week in August led to a shortage of essential supplies in the city .
Maoists rebels have been fighting since 1996 to replace Nepal 's constitutional monarchy with a communist state .
Lebanese authorities say four people are dead after an apparent assassination attempt against a top Lebanese police official near the southern city of Sidon .
Officials say Colonel Samir Shehade was wounded , but in stable condition after a bomb exploded near his car Tuesday .
The blast killed four of his aides and bodyguards , and wounded four others .
There was no immediate word on a possible motive for the attack against Shehade , a senior officer in Lebanon 's internal security force .
He was involved in the investigation of last year 's killing of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Many in Lebanon blame Syria for the Hariri murder , which the United Nations also is investigating separately .
Syria denies any involvement .
President Bush 's pick for secretary of the Department of Homeland Security says the White House was extremely supportive of his decision to withdraw from consideration for the post .
Bernard Kerik made the comment to reporters outside his home in New Jersey Saturday .
He said he informed the White House Friday of the decision to withdraw after uncovering tax and immigration problems related to a woman who was his family 's housekeeper and nanny .
President Bush nominated Mr. Kerik last week to succeed Tom Ridge .
Some analysts said he lacked the skills necessary to lead the 180,000-employee agency .
They also questioned his links to the Taser International stun gun company that earned him millions of dollars through stock options .
Mr. Kerik once served as New York City police commissioner under New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani .
The former mayor today described Mr. Kerik as a highly qualified candidate who made a mistake .
A security official in Pakistan says a suspected U.S. drone fired missiles at a building used by Taliban militants in Pakistan 's Kurram tribal region , near the Afghan border .
Witnesses say at least 12 people were killed in the missile attack .
The security official did not immediately confirm the witnesses ' claims .
If verified , this would be the first suspected drone attack in Kurram .
The strike comes just days after the new U.S. envoy to the region , Richard Holbrooke , visited Pakistan to talk to senior officials about security in the border region .
There have been more than 30 similar missile strikes on Pakistani territory since the middle of last year , despite the public objections of the Pakistani government .
The strikes have generally targeted al-Qaida and Taliban militants .
Iran has officially confirmed it has detained an Iranian American in Tehran a week after the United States demanded his release and the release of three other Iranian-Americans .
A foreign ministry spokesman confirmed the detainment of Ali Shakeri , a peace activist from California Sunday .
Iranian officials previously accused three of the dual nationals of endangering national security , but no information has been given about Shakeri .
President Bush has called for the detainees to be freed " immediately and unconditionally . "
He said the four pose no threat to Iran .
He noted they were in Iran either to visit family or conduct humanitarian work .
The Democratic Republic of Congo has transferred a militia leader to the International Criminal Court in the Hague to face war crimes charges .
The head of the Union of Congolese Patriots , Thomas Lubanga , was being flown from the capital Kinshasa to the court 's headquarters Friday .
The court issued an arrest warrant for Lubanga last month , but it was not made public until Friday .
The court says there are reasons to believe Lubanga enlisted children under the age of 15 to participate in fighting .
The rebel leader is to become the first person processed by the court .
Lubanga has been detained in Kinshasa since his arrest in March 2005 .
His group , dominated by ethnic Hema rebels , is accused of committing widespread human rights violations in Congo 's northeastern Ituri district .
Congo 's five-year civil war ended in 2003 .
The new chief of the United Nations commission investigating the assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri has arrived in Beirut .
Belgian prosecutor Serge Brammertz says he is acutely aware of the expectations of victims ' families of the February attack and he will do his utmost to meet those expectations .
Brammertz replaces German prosecutor Detlev Mehlis , who stepped down last month .
The U.N. investigation has already implicated several top Syrian officials in the killing of Mr. Hariri and at least 20 others in a massive bomb attack .
In October , the U.N. Security Council passed a resolution demanding Syria 's full cooperation with the probe .
But Syria 's president , Bashar al-Assad , has already rejected the commission 's request to interview him .
Damascus has denied it played any role in the assassination .
Police in Iran have warned that they will confront any opposition protests on the anniversary of the country 's disputed June presidential election .
Iran 's ILNA news agency quoted Tehran police chief General Hossein Sajedinia as saying that police will confront any illegal gathering .
Opposition leaders Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karoubi have called on supporters to take part in peaceful protests to mark the June 12 election , which returned President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to power .
Iran 's opposition accuses Mr. Ahmadinejad of rigging the election , adding that Mr. Mousavi was the rightful winner .
Thousands of people were arrested in the post-election protests that left several demonstrators dead .
More than 80 people were sentenced to prison terms of up to 15 years in connection with the demonstrations .
Several other activists face death sentences .
Lebanese officials say Syria 's military and intelligence withdrawal from Lebanon will be complete ahead of schedule , within the next two days .
There were conflicting reports of the exact timing .
A Lebanese military official said Saturday the pullout would be complete by Sunday , while a security official said it would be in the next 48 hours .
Last week , Syria said the last of its 14,000 troops would be out of Lebanon by Tuesday .
Saturday , a large number of Syrian troops left positions in Lebanon 's eastern Bekaa Valley .
As Syria prepares to end its 29-year presence in Lebanon , thousands of Maronite Christians marched in the mountains north of Beirut calling for the release of imprisoned anti-Syrian warlord Samir Geagea .
Jailed in 1994 , Geagea is serving multiple life sentences for crimes committed during Lebanon 's civil war .
British airport authorities say service should be back to normal Friday after strict new security measures caused a week of serious flight delays and cancellations .
Officials banned nearly all liquids and many carry-on items after police last week broke up an alleged plot to blow up passenger planes with liquid explosives .
British Airways canceled just 19 flights from London 's Heathrow Airport Thursday .
Heathrow is also scrambling to return thousands of pieces of luggage left behind by frustrated passengers .
Meanwhile , British and U.S. news reports say police investigating the alleged plot have found a suitcase filled with bomb-making components in the woods northwest of London .
One of the suspects lives in the area .
Twenty-three people , most of them British citizens of Pakistani descent , are in police custody in London .
Seven other suspects are jailed in Pakistan .
The Venezuelan Supreme Court had ruled in favor of a lower court petition seeking extradition from the United States of a Cuban militant wanted in connection with the 1976 bombing of a Cuban Jet liner that killed 73 people .
A statement from the Supreme Court Tuesday said Luis Posada Carriles should be tried in Venezuela .
Mr. Posada escaped from a Venezuelan prison before he could be tried in 1985 over the bombing .
He was later jailed in Panama where he was accused in a plot to kill Cuban President Fidel Castro .
He was pardoned last year on that charge .
Mr. Posada applied for asylum in the United States last month .
New opinion polls indicate Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon 's new party will win a large number of seats in March 's parliamentary elections .
The polls were published Friday in the Ma'ariv and Yedioth Ahronoth newspapers .
They say the new party would win at least 33 seats in the 120-member parliament .
The polls gave the Labor party at least 26 seats and Mr. Sharon 's former party , Likud , just 13 .
Mr. Sharon quit Likud - the party he co-founded in 1973 - because he said the party was no longer able to lead Israel to its national goals .
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak has chaired his first Cabinet meeting since undergoing gallbladder surgery last month in Germany .
Mr. Mubarak met with Egyptian Prime Minister Ahmed Nazif and several other government ministers Thursday in the Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh .
Mr. Mubarak temporarily handed over power to Prime Minister Nazif before undergoing surgery in Heidelberg , Germany on March 6 .
Doctors removed his gallbladder and a growth in his small intestine .
The 81-year-old president 's absence from public functions had set off new speculation about his frail health .
Mr. Mubarak has ruled Egypt for nearly 30 years .
His ruling party is expected to dominate in parliamentary elections later this year and Mr. Mubarak is expected to run for president again next year .
Many political experts also believe President Mubarak is grooming his son , Gamal , to take over .
Iraqi police say a suicide bomber drove a truck into a checkpoint Monday in a town north of Baghdad , killing at least nine people .
Police say the victims were members of a neighborhood patrol ( known as Awakening Councils , ) set up to oppose al-Qaida militants .
Two other people were reported missing and believed to be dead .
The attack comes just days after the release of a new Internet message purportedly by al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden .
He warned Iraqis not to take up arms against his movement or to support the unity government .
In a separate incident today , authorities said at least two Iraqi soldiers were killed and two others wounded when a roadside bomb struck their patrol near the Iranian border in Diyala province .
Several U.S. lawmakers have expressed concern about the possible nomination of Air Force General Michael Hayden to become the next director of the Central Intelligence Agency .
Senior Bush administration officials have said General Hayden may be named to replace Porter Goss , who announced his resignation on Friday .
But Republican Congressman Pete Hoekstra said a military official should not be in charge of the CIA because it is a civilian agency .
He told Fox News Sunday that the appointment of General Hayden could raise tensions between the CIA and defense officials .
Senators Diane Feinstein , a Democrat , and Saxby Chambliss , a Republican , also expressed concern over placing a military official in charge of the CIA .
But Republican Senator John McCain told CBS television that he hopes that , if nominated , General Hayden would be confirmed quickly in congressional hearings .
Afghan authorities say at least two Taleban insurgents have been killed and six others captured , while two Afghan soldiers and a civilian were wounded in separate incidents .
Local officials say the militants were killed overnight in southern Helmand province after Taleban forces attacked a police post there .
No police casualties were reported .
In another incident late Monday , in southeastern Paktika province , security forces arrested six insurgents following a brief exchange of fire .
A spokesman for the provincial governor said a mid-level Taleban commander , Mullah Akhtar Mohammad , is among the arrested .
And , in eastern Khost province , at least two Afghan soldiers and a civilian were wounded when an army vehicle was struck by a roadside bomb .
Afghanistan 's southern regions have seen some of the worst fighting in recent months since the Taleban regime was ousted from power in 2001 .
In Moscow , the lower house of Parliament has approved President Vladimir Putin 's controversial plan to end popular elections for Russia 's regional governors , and allow the Kremlin to appoint them instead .
Mr. Putin says such changes are necessary to block terrorists from trying to influence Russia 's local elections , but critics across the political spectrum say his plan is undemocratic .
The bill won final approval in the State Duma by a wide margin Friday .
It is expected to pass easily in the upper house .
The central government proposes that the Kremlin should select gubernatorial candidates , whose appointment would have to be confirmed by regional lawmakers .
If a provincial parliament rejects a governor chosen by Moscow , Mr. Putin could either dissolve the local body or over-rule its veto by appointing an acting governor .
A British court has set a September trial date for five men accused of planning to detonate bombs on London 's transport system .
The defendants appeared before London 's Old Bailey court Thursday via videolink from a high-security prison .
No one was hurt in the July 21 attacks when four of the men , ranging in ages from 23 to 27 , tried to detonate bombs at three subway stations and a bus on July 21 .
A fifth man was arrested after explosives were discovered in his backpack in London .
The charges against the men include attempted murder , possession of explosives and conspiracy to murder .
The bomb attempts came two weeks after suicide bombers killed 52 people in the London subway system and a bus .
Two U.S. lawmakers have formed a caucus to help mobilize support for Tibet 's exiled spiritual leader , the Dalai Lama , and to bring attention to China 's rule over the Tibetan people .
Republican Congressman Dana Rohrabacher of California and Democrat Neil Abercrombie of Hawaii plan to co-chair the caucus .
In a statement Tuesday , Rohrabacher said he and Abercrombie urge other members of Congress to join the caucus to uphold the rights of Tibet 's people and give a voice to those silenced by China 's government .
Rohrabacher also said the U.S. can not hide behind the spirit of the Olympics this August in Beijing as an excuse to ignore what the congressman called China 's " horrifying " human rights record .
China has controlled Tibet since 1951 and accuses the Dalai Lama of seeking independence for the region .
The spiritual leader insists he only wants autonomy for Tibetans under Chinese sovereignty .
Hurricane Katrina has battered southern Florida with high winds and heavy rain , leaving at least three people dead before moving out over the Gulf of Mexico .
The 11th named storm of this year 's Atlantic hurricane season came ashore Thursday between Hallandale Beach and North Miami Beach , packing 130 kilometer-per-hour winds .
It knocked down trees , flooded streets and left more than one million people without power .
The U.S. National Weather Service says Katrina temporarily lost some strength early Friday , but regained hurricane status as it moved over the Gulf of Mexico .
Forecasters anticipate the storm will turn north in the Gulf as it strengthens and could strike Florida 's panhandle in the coming days .
The Goldman Environmental Prize is awarded to environmental activists around the world annually for what the Goldman foundation calls " environmental grass roots heroism . "
The prize carries with it $ 1,50,000 and has been called the nobel prize for the environment .
This year 's winner from Europe is Belgium 's Ignace Schops .
VOA'S Paul Sisco has his story and the story of the national park he helped establish .
Bosnia 's Foreign Minister Mladen Ivanic has resigned two days after the United States and the top International mediator in Bosnia-Herzegovina imposed new sanctions against the country 's Serb Republic .
Mr. Ivanic is chairman of the Serb Party of Democratic Progress , one of two Bosnian Serb political movements , whose leaders have been barred from entering the United States for undermining Balkan peace efforts .
The other is the Serb Democratic Party , founded by indicted war crimes suspect Radovan Karadzic .
As the United States announced the measures , International mediator Paddy Ashdown fired six top Bosnian Serb police officers and three other government officials for failing to arrest war crimes suspects .
Mr. Ashdown acted under wide powers the international community granted him to insure compliance with the 1995 Dayton Peace accord that halted the Balkan conflict .
Bosnian Serb Prime Minister Dragan Mikerevic resigned Friday to protest the dismissals .
Negotiators in Beijing will resume work Sunday on forging an agreement to end the North Korean nuclear crisis .
China presented a draft statement Saturday , and U.S. envoy Christopher Hill said the draft represents a good basis for the negotiations .
Mr. Hill said he expects the Sunday session to be devoted to building a final text .
Negotiators from both Koreas , China , Russia , Japan and the United States are involved in the talks .
Mr. Hill said there is a consensus on making the Korean peninsula nuclear-free , but he added that obstacles remain .
Diplomats have said Pyongyang is sticking to its demand that it receive aid and security guarantees before dismantling its nuclear programs , while Washington wants to see the programs scrapped first .
The United States has urged Haiti to speed up planning for its elections , now scheduled for mid-December .
In New York Tuesday , U.S. Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns said Washington expects Port-au-Prince to work with greater speed and efficiency in organizing the elections .
The balloting for president and 129 parliamentary seats was first slated for October , then postponed until November .
Haiti 's interim prime minister , Gerard Latortue , told U.N. officials Tuesday the elections will now be held between December 11 and 18 .
Meanwhile , the U.N. Security Council urged Haitian authorities to work with the U.N. Stabilization Mission to develop an electoral plan .
It said national reconciliation and political dialogue should be promoted as a means to ensure long-term stability and good governance .
The elections will be the first since former President Jean-Bertrand Aristide fled the country in February 2004 .
Israel says residents of a small Jewish settlement in the Gaza Strip have agreed to relocate to Israel , rather than resist the planned removal of all settlers from the occupied territory next year .
The official in charge of the Israeli government plan to evacuate all 8,000 Gaza settlers next year says 25 families in the Pe'at Sadeh settlement will voluntarily move together to southern Israel in March .
The settlement would be the first to be dismantled under Prime Minister Ariel Sharon 's evacuation plan , which has drawn calls for resistance from the top settler council .
The Sharon government has offered cash incentives for Gaza settlers willing to leave before the withdrawal , which is scheduled to begin in about eight months .
Tibetans living in India are preparing to demonstrate in New Delhi during the four-day official visit by Chinese President Hu Jintao that begins Monday .
Members of the Tibet Youth Congress said they want to highlight Tibet 's issues during the visit .
Tibetan organizations and Tibet support groups said that , in addition to the planned protests in New Delhi , they also plan demonstrations in other parts of the country .
Indian authorities have reportedly asked Tibetans to leave the city center and told students to stay inside their dormitories during Mr. Hu 's visit .
They said they will take appropriate action against those who disobey the order .
In the northern Indian town of Dharamsala , Tibet 's parliament-in-exile called on the Chinese leader to meet with Tibet 's exiled spiritual leader , the Dalai Lama , to discuss the future of Tibet .
A U.S. newspaper says HIV / AIDS among infants in the United States may be nearly eliminated by next year .
The New York Times reports Sunday that the number of infants born in the United States with AIDS or HIV , the virus that causes AIDS , has dropped to about 200 a year , from nearly 2,000 in 1990 .
It said in New York City alone , the figure has dropped from 321 in 1990 to just five in 2003 because of success in fighting mother-to-child transmission .
The paper said that was achieved through use of better drugs , public education and testing , and cooperation at federal and local levels .
But the report warned that much of the rest of the world continues to be ravaged by AIDS , including more than two million people in sub-Saharan Africa last year .
France 's foreign minister says European states could impose unilateral sanctions on Iran if the United Nations fails to pass its own sanctions .
Bernard Kouchner told reporters in Finland Sunday that efforts should first be devoted to passing a resolution in the U.N. Security Council .
But he said if that does not happen , France may propose sanctions on Iran 's banks and insurance companies , and on travel permits for specific people .
Kouchner spoke to reporters outside a meeting of European Union foreign ministers in northern Finland .
On Saturday , his Finnish counterpart , Alexander Stubb , said there was enough agreement within the EU to impose unilateral sanctions on Iran .
Western members of the U.N. Security Council support a fourth round of sanctions against Iran , but veto-wielding China is urging more diplomacy .
Western nations accuse Iran of seeking a nuclear weapon .
Tehran says it is working on nuclear energy projects .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas says talks between his Fatah party and the ruling militant group Hamas on forming a coalition government have broken down .
Mr. Abbas made the comment Wednesday in Ramallah before a meeting with U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice .
Mr. Abbas ' Fatah faction has been locked in a power struggle with Hamas - even as the two sides tried to form a unity government .
Fighting between the sides has claimed 12 lives since Sunday .
In other news , Palestinian officials say unidentified gunmen killed a local Hamas leader , Mohammed Odde , as he left a mosque in a West Bank village .
On Tuesday , a militant faction linked to Fatah threatened to kill several Hamas leaders as part of the escalating power struggle .
The Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades warned in a leaflet that it will target exiled Hamas political leader Khaled Mashaal and two senior officials in the Palestinian interior ministry .
It 's Christmas Eve in the Holy Land and festivities have already begun in the little town of Bethlehem .
Palestinian boy and girl scouts are marching through Manger Square here in Bethlehem , kicking off Christmas Eve celebrations .
They are passing the ancient Church of the Nativity , the site where tradition says Jesus was born .
Religion is mixing with nationalism here : decorations include Christmas trees and lights and Palestinian flags .
Although Palestinians complain about Israel 's separation wall at the entrance to Bethlehem , the mood is upbeat this Christmas .
Bethlehem is enjoying a boom in tourism thanks to a lull in violence .
About 50,000 visitors are expected for Christmas , giving a boost to the Palestinian economy .
The South Korean leg of the Olympic Torch relay is under way in the capital of Seoul under heavy security .
Authorities say more than 8,000 riot police have been deployed to provide security for the relay .
At least two human rights groups have promised to try to disrupt the relay .
They want China to stop deporting North Korean refugees , who face stiff punishment or execution for fleeing the north .
The Japanese leg of the relay took place Saturday , with a few demonstrators throwing objects into the torch 's path and scuffles between protesters and police .
At least one person was detained as the torch made its way through the streets of the northern city of Nagano .
The torch run has been disrupted in other major cities in recent weeks by protesters condemning Chinese human rights practices , especially its forceful suppression of demonstrations in Tibet .
An audio recording purported to be of the leader of al-Qaida in Iraq has been posted on the Internet , four days after reports he had been killed in a clash among members of his insurgent group .
The voice said to be that of Abu Ayyub al-Masri denied reported internal fighting among Sunni Arab militants .
In the statement , posted on a militant Web site , Masri criticized the Iraqi Islamic Party headed by Vice President Tareq al-Hashimi for working with the government of Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki .
Iraq 's Interior Ministry said Tuesday intelligence reports indicated Masri had been killed in fighting north of Baghdad .
The U.S. military has not confirmed the report .
Masri , an Egyptian , assumed leadership of al-Qaida in Iraq from Abu Musab al-Zarqawi after the Jordanian militant was killed in a U.S. airstrike last June .
Iraqi officials say at least three people were killed Thursday in a series of bomb attacks apparently targeting police and government officials .
Investigators say a suicide bombing outside of the federal police headquarters in the city of Mosul killed two police officers and left at least eight people wounded .
In Baghdad , a high-ranking security official died after a bomb attached to his car exploded .
A second official was wounded in the blast .
A separate car explosion in Baghdad injured a ministry official .
Zimbabwe 's state-run newspaper reports police have arrested nearly 15,000 people in a new crackdown on illegal vendors .
The Herald reports that over the last two weeks , police have rounded up 14,706 individuals whom the paper described as street people , touts and illegal currency and fuel dealers .
The report says the operation was designed as a follow-up to " Restore Order , " when Zimbabwe 's government destroyed unauthorized dwellings and market stalls in what it said was a bid to end urban crime .
The newspaper says criminals were returning to the same neighborhoods .
A United Nations fact-finding mission called the policy disastrous and inhumane .
It estimated some 7,00,000 people lost their homes and businesses .
Zimbabwe has promised to build new housing for those it displaced .
Pakistani officials say missiles fired from a U.S. drone aircraft have killed at least five suspected militants in the northwest tribal region near the Afghan border .
Authorities say three missiles struck a compound Monday about 25 kilometers east of Miranshah , the main town in North Waziristan , a known insurgent stronghold .
In recent months , the United States has increased missile attacks by pilot-less drones against suspected al-Qaida and Taliban hide-outs in Pakistan 's northwest .
Elsewhere in the tribal region , officials said Monday that Taliban militants kidnapped and killed a pro-government tribal elder , Maulana Abdul Haleem , and dumped his body in Bajaur .
Here are the prices of some key commodities traded in New York on Tuesday :
The price of crude oil rose nearly $ 2 to settle at $ 121.79 a barrel .
Earlier , oil prices went as high at $ 122.73 a barrel , a record high .
Coffee prices rose more than one cent to finish the day at $ 1.329 a pound .
Copper prices fell more than $ 0.65 to close at $ 3.913 a pound .
And cocoa futures soared $ 91 to end at $ 2,781 a ton .
Japan 's foreign minister has warned North Korea that time is running out to stop its nuclear weapons program before Tokyo and its allies impose economic sanctions .
In an interview on Japan 's NHK television Sunday , Nobutaka Machimura said that if the situation continues for a year or two , the issue will have to be sent to the UN Security Council .
Mr. Machimura said Tokyo could also start economic sanctions if Pyongyang does not tell the truth about eight of 13 Japanese citizens who were abducted to train spies during the Cold War .
North Korea says the eight are dead , but Japan suspects they could still be alive .
Two sets of remains turned over last month proved not to be those of two abductees .
A British court has sentenced a Saudi prince to at least 20 years in prison for beating and strangling his aide in a London hotel .
A judge on Wednesday told Prince Saud Abdulaziz bin Nasser al Saud that no one is above the law .
Bandar Abdulaziz was found dead in a hotel room in February .
The prince had admitted to manslaughter , but denied intending to kill the man .
Prosecutors said the victim had been badly beaten and that his injuries showed there was a " sexual element " to the attack .
Indianapolis Colts quarterback Peyton Manning has found another place in the National Football League record book while leading his team to a 41-9 victory in Detroit over the Lions .
Manning threw six touchdowns Thursday and raised his season total to 41 scoring passes .
Manning set an NFL record with at least four touchdown passes in a fifth straight game .
The retired Dan Marino had a four-game streak with at least four touchdowns in 1984 , when he also set a record 48 scoring passes in a single season .
Two struggling teams played in Dallas , where a late scoring burst gave the host Cowboys a 21-Jul win over the Chicago Bears .
Julius Jones had two touchdowns for Dallas , including his first career NFL score .
Kidnappers in Haiti have released an American missionary , one day after seizing him at gunpoint outside the capital , Port-au-Prince .
Haitian police officials say Phillip Snyder was freed Friday after kidnappers received a ransom payment .
Mr. Snyder 's condition , as well as the amount of his ransom payment , are unclear .
In a separate incident , kidnappers released a group of children Thursday , after abducting them from a school bus hours earlier .
Police said the children were unharmed .
Some media report the abductors were paid an unspecified ransom .
But the Associated Press quotes a police commissioner as denying any ransom was paid .
Neither case was considered to be politically motivated .
India has reported new cases of bird flu in nearly 200 villages in the western state of Maharashtra , the site of two earlier outbreaks this year .
Officials say they suspect the virus could be the deadly H5N1 strain and tests are underway on samples from the birds .
No cases were reported in humans .
Officials say some 2,50,000 birds would have to be culled .
Reports from the region say the affected villages are in the neighboring states of Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh .
The affected region includes Maharashtra 's Jalgaon district , which also reported India 's second set of infections of H5N1 earlier this month .
Meanwhile , a European laboratory has confirmed that a buzzard found dead in Denmark two weeks ago was infected with the deadly strain of bird flu .
President Bush and Bolivian President Evo Morales have agreed on the need for constructive relations and dialogue between their nations .
White House spokesman Scott McClellan says Mr. Bush telephoned Mr. Morales to congratulate him on his election and inauguration and that Mr. Bush commended the Andean nation 's strong commitment to democracy .
The spokesman also says Mr. Morales outlined his agenda for social and economic change in Bolivia .
The United States has adopted a " wait-and-see " approach towards Mr. Morales , who has been a vocal opponent of U.S. drug and trade policies .
The call comes as Mr. Morales faces the first crisis of his presidency .
Heavy rains have caused floods that have killed at least 13 people , leaving tens of thousands homeless .
The full U.S. Senate has begun its debate on President Bush 's nominee to the Supreme Court , Samuel Alito .
The Senate Judiciary Committee Tuesday confirmed Alito on a party-line vote .
The committee 's 10 Republicans approved the nomination , while the eight Democrats on the panel rejected the conservative federal judge .
Democratic Senate Leader Harry Reid said he plans to oppose the nomination , saying he believes Alito would not be an independent check on the executive branch at a time when the president is abusing power .
But South Carolina Republican Lindsay Graham dismissed Democratic party opposition , saying they are merely playing politics with the nomination .
The Republican-controlled Senate is expected to confirm Alito , perhaps by the end of this week .
He would replace retiring Justice Sandra Day O'Connor , a moderate who has been an important swing vote in many cases .
World oil prices soared to all-time highs Thursday in New York and London , as investors bet that rising demand for oil will outstrip supply .
The New York price of oil for future delivery went as high as 57 dollars and 50 cents a barrel in early trading Thursday .
In London , Brent crude rose to 56 dollars and 15 cents a barrel .
The surging oil price came even though the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries raised its official production quotas at a meeting in Iran on Wednesday .
Analysts say China , India , the United States , and other nations are all seeking additional oil to power their expanding economies , but OPEC has little unused capacity to supply additional crude oil .
OPEC supplies about 40 percent of the world 's oil .
Talks have begun in Vienna between Iranian negotiators and the United Nations nuclear watchdog agency .
Iran 's delegation to Tuesday 's meeting on Tehran 's controversial nuclear program is headed by the country 's deputy national security chief , Javad Vaeidi , and Ali Asghar Soltanieh , Iran 's ambassador to the International Atomic Energy Commission .
The IAEA delegation is led by senior inspector Olli Heinonen .
Neither side made any comment as the talks began .
The U.N. Security Council has imposed two sets of sanctions on Iran because of its refusal to suspend uranium enrichment .
Enriched uranium and plutonium can be used to build nuclear weapons , but Iran says its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes .
The United States and its Western allies accuse Iran of trying to develop nuclear weapons .
Yemeni officials say at least three people have been killed in attacks on security and intelligence buildings in the country 's southern Abyan province .
Local authorities said Wednesday gunmen on motorcycles using mortars and rocket-propelled grenades opened fire on people inside the two buildings in the provincal capital , Zinjibar .
After the assault and subsequent clashes with police and guards , the attackers fled .
Officials said al-Qaida is believed to be responsible for the attacks , and security had arrested seven suspected insurgents .
The militant group was blamed for an attack last month on security headquarters in southern Yemen that left 11 people dead .
In southeast Texas , colonies made up of billions of so-called " crazy ants " are making life difficult for homeowners and others .
Researchers at Texas A & M University are working with environmental officials and pest control experts to find ways to top the spread of the invasive species .
It has been fouling electrical devices , overwhelming other insect species , and raising concerns over the health of the Texas ecosystem .
VOA 's Paul Sisco reports .
Japan has asked China to stop drilling for gas in a disputed area along the two countries ' sea border in the East China Sea .
A Japanese foreign ministry official said Wednesday , that his country deeply regrets China 's one-sided decision to start extracting natural gas from the region .
Beijing does not recognize Tokyo 's territorial claims in the area west of Japan 's southernmost islands .
However , it is not clear if the drilling is within what Japan considers its exclusive economic zone .
On Tuesday , China said it was within its rights to continue drilling in the area , but was willing to negotiate with Japan over the territorial waters .
Police in Spain 's North African enclave of Ceuta have arrested at least 11 suspected Islamic militants .
Police sources say forces sent by boat from the Spanish mainland carried out the sweep in pre-dawn raids early Tuesday across the tiny enclave on Morocco 's northwestern coast .
Authorities identified two of the detainees as brothers of Hamed Abderrahaman Ahmed , a Spaniard who spent two years in detention at the U.S. naval base in Guantanamo Bay , Cuba , after his 2001 capture near the Afghan-Pakistani border .
Authorities say Ahmed , who was released earlier this year by a Spanish court , was not among those arrested today .
The French news agency , AFP , quotes Spanish anti-terror services as saying authorities were alerted when a group linked to al-Qaida posted a document on the Internet calling for " a war against the infidel Spanish state . "
Malawi 's high court has ordered Vice President Cassim Chilumpha reinstated to his office , and his salary and benefits restored in full .
President Bingu wa Mutharika fired Chilumpha last month in a letter , citing his poor attendance at cabinet meetings and his unwillingness to move to Lilongwe , the capital of the southern African country .
Chilumpha protested the letter , saying that only Parliament has the power to dismiss him .
In its ruling , the high court said the firing was suspended pending judicial review , which will be scheduled later .
President Mutharika and Chilumpha were running mates in the 2004 elections , but have been feuding publicly since the president quit the United Democratic Party to set up his own political party .
Egypt 's political opposition is challenging President Hosni Mubarak 's election victory , saying the official vote count was fraudulent .
Challengers Ayman Nour , who came a very distant second to Mr. Mubarak , and Noaman Gomaa who finished third , continued to protest the results Saturday accusing the ruling National Democratic Party of tampering with the vote .
In central Cairo , opposition demonstrations were also planned .
But it appears Mr. Mubarak 's victory is final .
State-run television reported Saturday that parliament will hold an emergency session Wednesday to swear-in Mr. Mubarak for a fifth term that will end in 2011 .
Mr. Mubarak won Wednesday 's election with 88 percent of the vote .
But his victory was marred by reports of voting irregularities and low turnout - less than a quarter of the country 's 32 million registered voters cast ballots .
Lebanon 's prime minister , Fuad Siniora , says military forces are working to enforce the government 's authority in southern Lebanon .
Mr. Siniora warned Thursday that troops will confiscate weapons they find in the area , which is home to Hezbollah militant bases .
Thousands of Lebanese troops have deployed in southern parts of the country , after the end of fighting last month between Hezbollah and Israel .
Hezbollah leaders say fighters continue to operate along the border with Israel , to defend what they call land belonging to the group .
A United Nations resolution to end the fighting has called for Hezbollah fighters in Lebanon to be disarmed .
Syria and Iran are believed to be key suppliers of weapons and money to Hezbollah .
The White House has strongly condemned Friday 's rocket attack at the Jordanian Red Sea port of Aqaba where two American naval ships were docked .
A statement says the United States condemns all such attacks , and that U.S. officials are investigating in cooperation with Jordan .
U.S. military officials say it is safe to conclude that the two warships , the USS Ashland and the USS were the main target .
One of the rockets hit a military warehouse , killing a Jordanian soldier .
Another exploded near a military hospital .
The third rocket landed about 15 kilometers away , on the Israeli side of the border near the town of Eilat .
It did not explode .
Jordanian security forces have launched a massive hunt for four individuals suspected of firing the Katyusha rockets .
A group linked to al-Qaida has claimed responsibility in an unverifiable Internet statement .
South Korean President Roh Moo-hyun has instructed prosecutors to consider reopening a probe into a financial scam allegedly involving the front-running presidential candidate .
In a statement released Sunday , Mr. Roh said a videotape had surfaced in which frontrunner Lee Myung-bak admitted having founded the company at the center of the 2001 scandal .
Lee , a former Hyundai executive and Seoul mayor running as the Grand National Party 's candidate , has been heavily favored to win Wednesday 's election .
Lee was suspected of involvement in a scam in which his ex-partner , Kim Gyeong-jun , allegedly manipulated the price of stocks in a company he owned .
South Korean prosecutors announced earlier this month that they had found no evidence that the conservative politician was involved in stock market manipulation .
The president of the Democratic Republic of Congo , Joseph Kabila , has married his longtime girlfriend in the country 's capital , Kinshasa .
The nuptials come just weeks before Congo 's first free national elections in four decades .
Mr. Kabila presides over an interim government in the chaotic central African country .
He is one of 33 candidates for president in the elections , scheduled for July 30 .
Mr. Kabila assumed the presidency of Congo in 2001 following the assassination of his father , former rebel and President Laurent Kabila .
The 34-year-old Joseph Kabila married Olive Sita di Lembe on Saturday in a religious ceremony presided by Catholic and Protestant clergy .
They held a civil ceremony on Friday .
The two have been dating for six years .
They have a five-year-old daughter .
Saudi Arabia 's ambassador to the United States , Prince Turki al-Faisal , has resigned from his post and has left Washington .
Prince Turki reportedly made the announcement to his staff in Washington on Monday , citing personal reasons .
The prince held the post for a year-and-a-half , succeeding Prince Bandar bin Sultan , who left for personal reasons after 22 years on the job .
The Washington Post newspaper says colleagues of Prince Turki said they were shocked at Monday 's announcement .
The newspaper also says the departure comes as his brother , Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal , is in ill health , noting rumors that Prince Turki could be a possible replacement for Prince Saud .
Israel is now allowing Israelis and tourists to bring the iPad , Apple 's new tablet computer , into the country , instead of having them confiscated by customs agents .
Israel 's Ministry of Communications says that after a technical review with the U.S. computer maker , officials are now allowing the latest gadget into the country .
The devices confiscated during the past two weeks will be returned to their owners .
Israel initially banned the iPad because it feared the computers wireless signal had the potential to disrupt other devices , and was more powerful that European standards allowed .
Apple said it sold some 5,00,000 units of the iPad computer in the week after its U.S. debut on April 3 .
The company says it expects demand for the device to exceed supply in the coming weeks .
The computer maker said it will announce international pricing and begin taking online orders on May 10 .
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder says China has expressed support for his country 's candidacy for a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council .
Mr. Schroeder spoke with reporters Tuesday in Beijing after talks with Chinese President Hu Jintao .
Germany is one of several countries , including India , Brazil and Japan that are seeking a permanent seat on the Security Council .
Monday , Mr. Schroeder met with Chinese Prime Minister Wen Jiabao .
Chinese officials signed an agreement to buy European-built Airbus jetliners and German-made goods , including locomotives .
The German chancellor opposes the European Union 's ban on weapons sales to China , imposed after the bloody 1989 crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in Beijing .
His stand has been criticized by opponents in Germany , and the European Parliament renewed the sanctions last month .
Mr. Schroeder travels to Tokyo Wednesday for talks with Japanese officials .
A survey of U.S. households indicates that Americans are confident in the future of their economy , while a separate survey shows the rate of existing home sales in the U.S. continues to slip .
The rate of U.S. consumer confidence rose slightly in July in a monthly survey of American households .
The index rose more than a point to 106.5 .
Analysts had expected the index to fall slightly to 104 .
Experts say strong job prospects drove the increase , despite record high fuel prices .
In another survey , sales of previously owned homes fell more than a percent in June to 6.6 million , continuing an almost year-long slide .
Both surveys were released Tuesday .
Consumer confidence is widely seen as a gauge of spending and measures how consumers feel about the future of the economy .
The measure of home sales is seen as a barometer of activity in the housing sector .
A U.S. military court in Afghanistan has sentenced an American soldier to six months confinement and a reduction in rank after finding him guilty of mistreating Afghan detainees .
Military officials say Sergeant Kevin Myricks was accused of punching detainees at a base in southern Uruzgan province .
He was convicted during a court martial Monday at Bagram air base near Kabul .
Another U.S. soldier accused in the same incident was sentenced on Friday to four months detention without pay and demotion .
U.S. military personnel have been accused in other instances of Afghan prisoner abuse .
But U.S. officials deny widespread mistreatment of those held in military custody .
Tens of thousands of Turks protested Sunday against the country 's Islamist-rooted government .
The demonstrators chanted " Turkey is secular and will remain secular " as they gathered in Samsun .
The Black Sea port is where modern Turkey 's secular founder , Mustafa Kemal Ataturk , launched the country 's war of independence .
Pro-secular demonstrations have also been held in Ankara , Istanbul and Izmir , where more than one million people protested against Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan 's government last week .
Mr. Erdogan has expressed support for the country 's secular laws .
But his opponents accuse him of having a secret Islamist agenda .
Turkey 's main opposition party , the pro-secular Republican People 's Party and the left-wing Democratic Left Party formed an alliance last week to contest July parliamentary elections .
Israeli military police have arrested a defense force officer who allegedly stole computers from the Gaza-bound aid flotilla intercepted by Israeli commandos in May .
Officials say the officer is suspected of stealing as many as six laptop computers , some of which were sold to other soldiers .
News reports say some of the soldiers who allegedly purchased the computers are also under investigation .
In May , nine pro-Palestinian activists on a Turkish ship were killed after Israeli commandos boarded vessels attempting to deliver aid directly to Gaza , in violation of an Israeli blockade .
The incident increased tensions between Israel and Turkey .
Israel had commandeered several Turkish ships that were part of the flotilla .
However , earlier this month it allowed the ships ' operators to sail the vessels back to Turkey .
Irish quartet U2 rocked the French seaside resort of Cannes early on May 20 , prior to the premiere of its three-dimensional concert film .
Titled U2 3D , the full-length movie was shot in South America during the band 's 2006 " Vertigo " tour .
Producer John Modell said the digital production heralds a new wave of three-dimensional filmmaking .
" We are replicating the physiology of sight , " Modell said .
" If you get it off by just a hair it creates actual physical problems - eye strain , nausea .
We do n't have that at all . "
The production will only be shown in 3D .
At present , about 700 screens are equipped with the Real D 3D system on which the film will initially show .
Most are in the United States .
Real D chairman Michael Lewis predicted the number will soon rise to 1,000 worldwide .
For 715 years , from 1278 to 1993 , Andorrans lived under a unique co-principality , ruled by French and Spanish leaders ( from 1607 onward , the French chief of state and the Spanish bishop of Seu d'Urgell ) .
In 1993 , this feudal system was modified with the titular heads of state retained , but the government transformed into a parliamentary democracy .
For decades Andorra enjoyed its status as a small refuge of fiscal and banking freedom and benefitted from Spanish and French tourists attracted to the country 's duty-free shopping .
The situation has changed in recent years as Andorra started to tax foreign investment and other sectors .
Tourism accounts for over 80 % of Andorra 's gross domestic product .
Macedonia gained its independence peacefully from Yugoslavia in 1991 .
Greece 's objection to the new state 's use of what it considered a Hellenic name and symbols delayed international recognition , which occurred under the provisional designation of " the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia . "
In 1995 , Greece lifted a 20-month trade embargo and the two countries agreed to normalize relations .
The United States began referring to Macedonia by its constitutional name , Republic of Macedonia , in 2004 and negotiations continue between Greece and Macedonia to resolve the name issue .
Some ethnic Albanians , angered by perceived political and economic inequities , launched an insurgency in 2001 that eventually won the support of the majority of Macedonia 's Albanian population and led to the internationally-brokered Ohrid Framework Agreement , which ended the fighting by establishing a set of new laws enhancing the rights of minorities .
Fully implementing the Framework Agreement and stimulating economic growth and development continue to be challenges for Macedonia , although progress has been made on both fronts over the past several years .
Coconuts , grown throughout the islands , are the sole cash crop .
Small local gardens and fishing contribute to the food supply , but additional food and most other necessities must be imported from Australia .
There is a small tourist industry .
There are 27 coral islands in the group .
Captain William KEELING discovered the islands in 1609 , but they remained uninhabited until the 19th century .
From the 1820s to 1978 , members of the CLUNIE-ROSS family controlled the islands and the copra produced from local coconuts .
Annexed by the UK in 1857 , the Cocos Islands were transferred to the Australian Government in 1955 .
The population on the two inhabited islands generally is split between the ethnic Europeans on West Island and the ethnic Malays on Home Island .
Occupied by the UK in 1841 , Hong Kong was formally ceded by China the following year ; various adjacent lands were added later in the 19th century .
Pursuant to an agreement signed by China and the UK on 19 December 1984 , Hong Kong became the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region ( SAR ) of the People 's Republic of China on 1 July 1997 .
In this agreement , China promised that , under its " one country , two systems " formula , China 's socialist economic system would not be imposed on Hong Kong and that Hong Kong would enjoy a high degree of autonomy in all matters except foreign and defense affairs for the next 50 years .
A FISHERMAN , engaged in his calling , made a very successful cast and captured a great haul of fish .
He managed by a skillful handling of his net to retain all the large fish and to draw them to the shore ; but he could not prevent the smaller fish from falling back through the meshes of the net into the sea .
THE People being dissatisfied with a Democratic Legislature , which stole no more than they had , elected a Republican one , which not only stole all they had but exacted a promissory note for the balance due , secured by a mortgage upon their hope of death .
A medical student was working in the toxicology department at the poison control center .
A woman called in very upset because she caught her little daughter eating ants .
The medical student quickly reassured her that the ants are not harmful and there would be no need to bring her daughter into the hospital .
She calmed down , and at the end of the conversation happened to mention that she gave her daughter some ant poison to eat in order to kill the ants .
The student told the mother that she better bring her daughter in to the emergency room right away .
Seems that a year ago , some Boeing employees on the work field decided to steal a life raft from one of the 747s .
They were successful in getting it out of the plane and home .
When they took it for a float on the river , they were quite surprised by a Coast Guard helicopter coming towards them .
It turned out that the chopper was homing in on the emergency locator that is automatically activated when the raft is inflated .
They are no longer employed there .
A motorist was unknowingly caught in an automated speed trap that measured his speed using radar and photographed his car .
He later received in the mail a ticket for $ 40 and a photo of his car .
Instead of payment , he sent the police department a photograph of $ 40 .
Several days later , he received a letter from the police that contained another picture of handcuffs .
A woman was reporting her car as stolen , and mentioned that there was a car phone in it .
The policeman taking the report called the phone and told the guy that answered that he had read the ad in the newspaper and wanted to buy the car .
They arranged to meet , and the thief was arrested .
A lawyer charged a man $ 1,000 for legal services .
The man paid him in cash with crisp new $ 100 bills .
After the client left , the lawyer discovered that two bills had stuck together -- he 'd been overpaid by $ 100 .
The ethical dilemma for the lawyer : Should he tell his partner ?
Egypt 's top prosecutor has charged opposition leader Ayman Nour with forgery , in a case that has sparked high-level criticism in the United States and Europe .
The indictments were announced Tuesday in Cairo .
No trial date has been set .
Mr. Nour , who says he will seek the Egyptian presidency in upcoming elections , is set to stand trial along with six defendants from his al-Ghad party .
Prosecutors allege Mr. Nour used documents with forged signatures last year when registering the party with the Cairo government .
Mr. Nour was arrested in January and spent six weeks in a Cairo jail , before his release on bond last week .
In a letter to Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak , the New York-based Human Rights Watch said it was dismayed by what it called Cairo 's " radical intolerance " toward political dissent .
The U.S. State Department and the European parliament also voiced concern .
Pakistani military officials say 14 of about 40 Pakistani soldiers who went missing following an attack on a security checkpoint have been found in neighboring Afghanistan .
Officials say the Frontier Corps paramilitary troops disappeared from the Mohmand tribal region after a Taliban insurgent attack along the Afghan border earlier this week .
Military spokesman Major General Athar Abbas told reporters Thursday that Afghan authorities handed over the troops to the Pakistani consulate in Jalalabad and the soldiers were being flown back to Pakistan .
Taliban militants said they captured 10 soldiers during the attack on the paramilitary post , but officials could not verify the claim .
On Wednesday , Pakistani officials said 10 paramilitary soldiers and at least 36 militants were killed in fighting in the country 's Bajaur tribal region .
The Pakistani military has twice declared victory there following offensives aimed at clearing the area of insurgents linked to the Taliban and al-Qaida .
Thailand 's military has named a committee to begin the process of writing a new constitution , following a military coup last month .
Officials said Thursday the 17-member panel will be led by Air Force Chief Chalit Phukphasuk .
The committee is to select 2,000 people for a National Assembly , from which 100 people will be selected to draft the new charter .
Leaders of the military coup have pledged to return the country to civilian rule in one year and hold new elections in October of next year .
Interim Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont Thursday reaffirmed plans for the army-led government to finish its work in one year .
He said he does not want to " bear the burden " assigned by military leaders longer than necessary .
Earlier , a member of the interim cabinet , Thirapat Serirangsan , said the transition process may take as many as 17 months .
Government officials in Sudan 's semi-autonomous south say Saturday fighting within the army has killed at least 13 people , including civilians and soldiers .
Authorities say the violence erupted in the oil-rich Unity State Friday between bodyguards of the state 's governor and troops loyal to army General Paulino Matip .
Government officials say the clashes stem from an argument that escalated into violence .
The infighting comes as southern Sudan 's ruling party ( Sudan Peoples ' Liberation Movement , SPLM ) seeks to reclaim a major oil field in Unity State .
An arbitration court granted the land where the oil field is located to the northern-based national government in a July ruling .
Southern Sudan is also scheduled to vote on independence from the North in a 2011 referendum .
The independence vote is part of a 2005 peace deal between the north and the south that ended 21 years of civil war .
Israel has stepped up security around Jerusalem 's holiest site to prevent clashes between Muslim worshippers and Jewish extremists opposed to Israel 's impending withdrawal from the Gaza Strip .
Hundreds of police have been mobilized around what Jews call the Temple Mount , and Muslims know as the Noble Sanctuary .
Thousands of Jews are expected to attend prayer services at the compound through Sunday to commemorate the destruction of the biblical Jewish temples 2000 years ago .
Muslim clerics have urged their followers to protect mosques on the holy site .
Meanwhile , Hamas leaders in Gaza held a rare news conference Saturday , vowing to continue their struggle against Israel .
The Palestinian Authority says security forces are fully prepared ahead of their deployment today to prevent any attempts by militants to disrupt Israel 's withdrawal from Gaza beginning this week .
Venezuela 's president has called on the international community to do everything possible to avoid a military conflict with Iran because of its nuclear program .
Speaking on a trip to London Monday , Hugo Chavez said that Europe has a very important role to play in the dispute with Iran , which is accused of seeking atomic weapons .
Earlier , Mr. Chavez warned that the price of oil would soar if the United States took military action against Iran .
The Venezuelan leader was set to conclude a two-day trip to London , which did not include a meeting with British Prime Minister Tony Blair .
Later Monday , Mr. Chavez was to travel to Algeria for talks with President Abdelaziz Bouteflika .
Tuesday , he is to meet Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi in Tripoli .
French singer Henri Salvador , who performed with Django Reinhardt and is credited with inspiring the bossa nova , died in Paris Wednesday , at the age of 90 .
Officials of his recording company say Salvador died in his home of an aneurysm .
Salvador was born in French Guiana and moved to Paris , where he began playing the guitar .
Renowned guitarist Django Reinhardt discovered him in the 1930s .
He later played with band leader Ray Ventura before going on to a solo career .
Salvador 's song " Dans mon Isle " inspired the Brazilian musician Antonio Carlos Jobim , who borrowed the song 's innovative sense of timing and used it to create the bossa nova style .
A leading human rights group says Afghanistan 's human rights situation demands continuing monitoring by the United Nations .
Human Rights Watch issued a statement late Tuesday , urging the U.N. Human Rights Commission to keep Afghanistan on its agenda and to increase the number of monitors in the country .
The U.N. commission is holding its annual meeting in Geneva this week .
The U.S.-based group says there is still a human rights crisis in Afghanistan , where warlords and armed factions continue to dominate many regions and routinely abuse human rights , especially the rights of women and girls .
It also urged the United States to help increase human rights monitoring in Afghanistan , saying it is particularly important ahead of the country 's parliamentary election , which is expected in September .
Iranian President Mohammad Khatami has issued a new warning that Tehran will respond to any hostile military action from the United States , but he says he does not believe U.S. forces will attack his country .
Speaking in Uganda Thursday , Mr. Khatami said Tehran does not welcome tensions with Washington , and said he believes the possibility of a U.S. attack is " very low . "
The two governments have been locked in a three-year stand-off over U.S. allegations that Iran is seeking to develop nuclear weapons .
Tehran flatly denies the charges .
Mr. Khatami 's remarks follow a published report Sunday that said the United States is carrying out secret reconnaissance missions in Iran to identify targets for possible military strikes .
The White House rejected the New Yorker magazine report , saying it was riddled with inaccuracies and conclusions not based on fact .
Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko is hosting a two-day meeting of officials from three other former Soviet republics aimed at building democracy in the region .
Representatives of Azerbaijan , Georgia and Moldova join their Ukrainian colleagues in Kiev Monday ahead of a meeting of the four countries ' presidents on Tuesday .
Talks are expected to focus on energy issues as well as cooperation by the four nations , known under the acronym GUAM , in international organizations .
Ukrainian officials say the meeting will consider expanding the activities of the group and changing its name to the Organization for Democracy and Development .
The group was founded in 1997 with the aim of expending cooperation of the four members of the Commonwealth of Independent States .
Uzbekistan joined in 1999 , but announced its withdrawal three years later , complaining that the group had deviated from its goal of economic cooperation to a focus on political issues .
A stampede at a religious gathering in southern Pakistan has killed at least 29 women and children .
More than 70 people were injured in the stampede , which occurred Sunday after a Sunni Muslim ceremony in Karachi celebrating the birth of the Prophet Muhammad .
At least 20,000 women and their children attended the ceremony .
Local officials and witnesses said the stampede began after a girl fell down in the middle of a crowd leaving a mosque .
They said a woman bent down to pick up the girl , causing others behind to trip over her .
Dozens of unconscious women and children were sent to nearby hospitals .
More bleak news for the U.S. economy Friday : the Labor Department reported the nation lost more than a half million jobs in November , the most in about three decades .
And the number of homeowners struggling to make their mortgage payments is rising .
President Bush expressed concern about the deteriorating U.S. economy and used the word " recession " for the first time .
Members of the U.N. Security Council have arrived in Rwanda at the start of a tour of nations affected by a decade of ethnic strife in Africa 's Great Lakes region .
Delegates are also scheduled to visit the Democratic Republic of Congo , Burundi and Uganda to study ways of encouraging rebuilding and an end to violence .
The tour comes one day after a Great Lakes summit in Tanzania , where 15 African leaders signed a pledge to disarm fighters , stop the flow of weapons and improve security .
Speaking at the summit , U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan promised to back peacekeeping operations and humanitarian aid in the region .
In 1994 , the genocide in Rwanda sparked a series of ethnic conflicts and cross-border wars , killing and displacing millions of people , mostly civilians .
The United States is the only wealthy , industrialized nation that does not provide universal health care for its citizens .
And now , rising costs for both health care and for insurance premiums put health care out of reach for many Americans .
Forty-seven million do not have health insurance .
VOA 's Carol Pearson has more .
President Bush says the United States needs to increase its oil refining capacity after two Gulf of Mexico hurricanes tightened gasoline supplies .
Following a briefing by the Energy Department , the president said Hurricanes Rita and Katrina exposed the fragility of the balance between oil supply and demand in the nation .
The president said he was willing to use the national Strategic Petroleum Reserve to meet immediate fuel needs and he urged citizens to conserve fuel by curtailing nonessential trips and conserving electricity during peak hours .
The president said many pipelines and refineries should be back to full capacity by next week , but officials are still assessing the damage at several key sites .
Oil prices fell today to about $ 64 a barrel on reports of limited hurricane damage to industry facilities .
The Paris Club of international creditors has agreed to cancel 80 percent of the debt Iraq owes member countries .
Officials say the deal , brokered in Berlin , is worth about $ 33 billion .
Club officials were set to make a formal announcement in Paris later Sunday .
The United States had sought as much as a 95 percent debt reduction as part of a strategy aimed at increasing the chances of survival for the post-war Iraqi government .
For its part , France had sought to have member countries initially waive 50 percent of the debt and then review the matter in three years .
Paris had argued that slashing the debt by more than 50 percent was unfair to other poor , debt-ridden nations that lack the potential oil revenues of Iraq .
President Bush is urging senior citizens to enroll in the new Medicare prescription drug plan by its May 15 deadline .
Mr. Bush issued the call Tuesday as he visited seniors in the Midwestern U.S. states of Missouri and Iowa to discuss the program .
The president told his audiences that 29 million Americans are already participating in the program intended to give them choices and save them money .
The president 's chief Medicare official , Mark McClellan , said more than 1,000 enrollment seminars are planned around the country this week to raise awareness about the program .
Democrats have said the numerous options in the plan confuse senior citizens and will cost them more money .
Mr. Bush has acknowledged problems with the plan since its January debut , but says his administration has straightened them out .
Top Republican lawmakers in the House of Representatives say they are planning legislation that would block a Dubai company from taking over operations of several U.S. ports , setting up a showdown with the White House .
The chairman of a key House committee says he will attach a provision blocking the proposed deal to an emergency spending measure for the war in Iraq and for Hurricane Katrina recovery efforts .
The proposal marks a significant break between the White House and Republican lawmakers who have supported President Bush 's legislative agenda in recent years .
The White House has vowed to veto any legislation overturning the deal with Dubai-owned DP World , and on Tuesday a spokesman said the administration would continue to work with Congress on the matter .
But House members say the issue is a " very big " political problem for lawmakers and they expect to hold talks with the Senate on ways to block the takeover .
A spokesman for U.S. President Barack Obama says a decision on how many additional troops will be sent to Afghanistan will be made shortly .
White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs told reporters Monday aboard Air Force One that the decision will be made within days and not weeks .
Defense Secretary Robert Gates told reporters last week that the president will have several options before him .
The U.S. commander in Afghanistan , General David McKiernan , has requested up to 30,000 additional troops , including combat and aviation brigades , to join U.S. military units already in the country .
There are currently about 60,000 foreign soldiers in Afghanistan , most of them part of the International Security Assistance Force .
The Obama administration has ordered a review of U.S. policy in Afghanistan and neighboring Pakistan , to consider new ways to root out terrorist havens and how to battle insurgents more effectively .
Pyongyang is demanding Seoul pay at least $ 1 billion in compensation for allegedly torturing North Korean spies and prisoners of war formerly held in South Korea .
North Korea 's official KCNA news agency says the government submitted its claim for damages to South Korea 's Human Rights Commission Friday .
Pyongyang 's complaint involves 63 North Koreans freed by South Korea in 2000 , and sent back to the North after decades of detention .
Seoul agreed to release them after a reconciliation summit between the two Koreas .
North Korea says the prisoners were subjected to physical and mental torture , and held in solitary confinement for refusing to renounce their ideology .
Pyongyang has also faced international criticism for allegedly torturing prisoners .
Seoul says hundreds of South Korean prisoners are still being held by the North .
New violence has killed at least 11 people in Iraq , casting a shadow over celebrations to mark the end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan .
North of Baghdad , near Baquba , gunmen attacked a police checkpoint in the town of Buhriz , killing six officers and wounding at least 10 others .
In the town of Taza , near Kirkuk , a roadside bomb exploded , hitting a convoy of Iraqi soldiers .
Five were killed and four were wounded .
And the U.S. military said a roadside bomb blast in east Baghdad killed an American soldier .
Meanwhile , a senior British general , Major General James Dutton , told reporters that sophisticated technology and explosives for making bombs are entering Iraq from neighboring Iran .
The general said it is still not clear whether Iran 's government , its intelligence service , or other unspecified groups are involved .
President Bush was in the middle of a minor confrontation involving his Secret Service agents and Chilean security forces at the APEC summit in Santiago , Chile Saturday night .
A shoving match between the Chilean and U.S. agents occurred Saturday when the Chileans tried to stop the Secret Service bodyguards from accompanying the president to a dinner with world leaders .
When the president noticed the confrontation , he stepped away from First Lady Laura Bush , Chilean President Ricardo Lagos and his wife , and pulled the U.S. agent from Chilean security .
The incident was shown on APEC 's summit television .
White House spokeswoman Claire Buchan said Chilean security tried to stop the president 's Secret Service from accompanying him .
She also said the issue was resolved when the president told the Chileans the Secret Service agents were with him .
Veterinary experts meeting in Paris say all countries regardless of their economic problems must fight bird flu .
The World Organization for Animal Health said Tuesday just one country failing to control bird flu can endanger the whole planet .
The experts warned that the deadly H5N1 virus is highly likely to infect domestic poultry in Europe as migrating wild birds return from Africa and the Mideast .
Bird flu has already struck a turkey farm in France .
France says 43 countries have either banned or curbed exports of French poultry .
Meanwhile , Sweden reported its first bird flu case in wild ducks Tuesday .
And bird flu was found in a cat on the German Baltic Sea island of Ruegen , where bird flu killed a number of wild birds .
Experts say there is no evidence cats can spread the disease to humans .
U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan says the United States has weathered two years of sharp rises in fuel and natural gas prices reasonably well , thanks to what he calls " market flexibility . "
In a speech Wednesday in Washington , Mr. Greenspan also praised market flexibility for what he termed " the impressive performance " of the U.S. economy over the past 20 years .
Analysts have often praised Mr. Greenspan , who has been in office since 1987 , for fostering economic stability with his interest rate and monetary policy .
On Wednesday , he made no mention of interest rates , which the Federal Reserve has raised several times in recent months .
Mr. Greenspan 's term on the Federal Reserve 's Board of Governors is scheduled to end on January 31 .
Kosovo President Ibrahim Rugova has nominated Bajram Kosumi as prime minister of the Serbian province .
Mr. Kosumi is a close associate of former Prime Minister Ramush Haradinaj , who resigned last week and surrendered to the United Nations tribunal in The Hague after it indicted him for war crimes .
Kosovo lawmakers are expected to consider the nomination next week .
The appointment comes just months before Kosovo 's ethnic Albanian-led government and Serbian leaders are due to open talks on the future of the province .
Kosovo 's ethnic Albanian majority wants independence , while its Serb minority wants the province to remain part of Serbia .
The United Nations has been administering the area since 1999 , when NATO air strikes against Yugoslavia forced Serbian and Yugoslav security forces to withdraw from the area .
Gunmen in Iraq have attacked a bus carrying Shi'ite Muslim pilgrims to shrines south of Baghdad , killing three and wounding several others .
Britain 's Foreign Office says it is investigating reports that at least two British citizens are among the dead from Monday 's shooting .
Meanwhile , there is no word on the fate of four Western humanitarian workers who disappeared in Iraq on Saturday .
A Canadian official disclosed the kidnappings of a Briton , two Canadians and an American on Sunday , but did not reveal details .
Since then , U.S. and British officials have confirmed the abductions .
There has been no public claim of responsibility .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says 20 suspected insurgents have been captured south of Baghdad in Babil province .
Separately , authorities say U.S. troops have unearthed more than 2,700 mortar rounds at an abandoned Iraqi army base near Kirkuk .
Pope Benedict XVI says he does not feel well enough to take many foreign trips , but said he he hopes to travel to what he calls a peaceful Holy Land .
In an interview with German television broadcast Sunday , Pope Benedict said the Vatican wants to mobilize all forces who he says recognize that war is the worst solution for all sides , even for those he calls the apparent victors .
Earlier Sunday , the pope voiced hope for the ceasefire in Lebanon and is urging the quick delivery of humanitarian aid once the truce takes hold .
An anti-American protest turned violent Wednesday , as police and protesters clashed in the Afghan capital , Kabul .
Hundreds of demonstrators chanted " Death to America , " burned tires and blocked a main highway , as part of a protest against the previously canceled plans of a small U.S. church to burn hundreds of Qurans .
At least 35 police officers and 10 demonstrators were injured after police moved in to disperse stone-throwing crowds .
Afghan officials say police opened fire after being shot at by protesters .
Some of the demonstrators waved Taliban flags and police say some members of the militant group had infiltrated the crowd .
The American church 's plans to burn Qurans to mark the ninth anniversary of the September 11 attacks was called off last week amid international outrage .
Separately , two protesters were killed Sunday when police opened fire on a similar demonstration in eastern Logar province .
United Nations officials in the Democratic Republic of Congo have paid tribute to Bangladeshi peacekeepers killed in an ambush Friday .
Dominique McAdams , head of the U.N. bureau in Congo 's eastern Ituri province spoke to international soldiers Saturday at Bunia airport , where the bodies of the nine peacekeeers were to be loaded on a plane to Bangladesh .
She said the Bangladeshi peacekeepers wanted to improve the lives of ordinary Congolese and to help free them from the grip of what she called " demented " armed elements .
Ms. McAdams said the U.N. mission must do its utmost to ensure that the Bangladeshis ' sacrifice will not be in vain .
The United Nations accused local armed groups , which it did not name , of being behind what it said were premeditated killings .
Police officials in Spain say Spanish and Moroccan security forces have thwarted another attempt by African migrants to illegally cross over from Morocco to Spain 's North African enclave of Melilla .
Police say at least 1,000 migrants tried to scale razor wire fences early Thursday but failed to get through .
The attempt came just hours after Spain announced measures to deter migrants , mostly from west Africa , from storming Melilla and its sister enclave , Ceuta .
Spain said it would invoke for the first time a 1992 agreement with Morocco allowing it to send back to Morocco any Africans who had succeeded in getting into Ceuta or Melilla .
Earlier Wednesday , about 500 migrants in Morocco tried storming a fence surrounding Melilla .
About 65 people successfully climbed over the fence while dozens of others suffered serious cuts from razor wire .
Iraqi authorities say a female suicide bomber has blown herself up near a government compound north of Baghdad , killing at least 15 people and wounding 40 others .
The woman detonated her explosives vest in the Diyala province capital of Baquba Sunday , near a heavily guarded area that includes government offices and a courthouse .
Authorities say at least seven policemen were killed in the attack .
An increasing number of women have been carrying out suicide attacks in Iraq in recent months .
The U.S. military says al-Qaida in Iraq has been recruiting women because it is easier for them to avoid security searches .
Authorities in Saudi Arabia have identified three of the militants killed in Monday 's terrorist attack on the U.S. Consulate in Jeddah .
The Saudi Interior Ministry says the three were not on a most wanted list of suspected al-Qaida sympathizers issued by Saudi authorities last year .
Authorities are still trying to identify a fourth dead militant , while the name of a fifth militant taken into custody was not released .
The militants stormed the consulate with grenades , triggering a gunbattle with Saudi security forces .
Five non-American staff members died in the attack .
The United States says it is boosting security at its diplomatic missions in Saudi Arabia due to Monday 's attack .
The Jeddah consulate remains closed Tuesday .
Russia says it thinks the top threats to its future security will come from NATO expansion and rivalry over energy resources .
The Kremlin on Wednesday unveiled its new National Security Strategy , outlining its priorities through the year 2020 .
The policy paper was signed by Russian President Dmitry Medvedev .
It says Russia can not rule out the use of military force to " solve emerging problems " around the competition for energy sources .
The document says Moscow hopes to build " an equal and full-fledged strategic partnership with the United States , " but criticized U.S. plans for a missile defense shield in Europe .
The new security strategy says Russia views any expansion of NATO to its neighboring countries to be " unacceptable . "
That remark is likely aimed at Georgia and Ukraine , which have sought to join the alliance over Moscow 's objections .
Osama bin Laden 's deputy has appeared in a new videotape threatening Britain with more terror attacks and warning the United States it could face thousands of military casualties in Iraq if it does not withdraw its troops .
Al-Qaida deputy Ayman al-Zawahiri did not directly claim al-Qaida carried out the July 7 London attacks in the video aired Thursday on the Arab satellite channel al-Jazeera .
But he said further attacks would be the fault of British Prime Minister Tony Blair 's policies .
Of the United States , he said losses in the September 11 , 2001 attacks , and in Iraq and Afghanistan , would only be the beginning until " you withdraw from our land , stop stealing our oil and resources , and end support for corrupt rulers . "
Ayman al-Zawahiri last appeared in a videotape on June 17 , in which he said peaceful change was not possible .
The New York Times says the CIA has sent more than 100 suspected terrorists to other countries for interrogation under a secret program authorized by the Bush administration .
Sunday 's edition of the newspaper quotes former and current government officials as saying the CIA has acted under a still-classified directive that President Bush signed within days of the September 11 , 2001 , terrorist attacks .
The officials said the process , known as rendition , has been central in U.S. efforts to disrupt terrorism .
Suspects have been sent to countries including Egypt , Syria , Jordan , Saudi Arabia and Pakistan .
The transfers have been criticized because some former prisoners alleged they were mistreated .
An administration official told the paper the CIA takes care to ensure the prisoners are detained under humane conditions and not tortured .
Venezuela 's president says his government may give its U.S.-made fighter jets to Cuba and China , after accusing the United States of breaking an agreement to provide jet parts .
President Hugo Chavez Tuesday said the United States is refusing to sell parts to Caracas to maintain its fleet of U.S.-made F-16 fighters .
Mr. Chavez said his nation can do whatever it wants with the jets - even give them to Cuba and China .
The comments were made at a ceremony announcing Venezuela 's plans to launch a telecommunications satellite with China 's help .
A Defense Department official speaking on condition of anonymity says there has been no communication with Caracas about giving away the jets .
The official also said U.S. laws strictly govern third party transfers .
Venezuela bought two-dozen F-16 jets from the United States in the 1980s .
Iran 's foreign minister says Tehran will restart its uranium enrichment program if Friday 's talks with European nations fail .
Kamal Kharrazi spoke to reporters at The Hague , saying if the two sides fail to resolve the impasse Friday , then Tehran " will have no choice " but to restart its enrichment program .
Britain , France and Germany , backed by the United States , want Iran to permanently give up uranium enrichment , which can be used to fuel nuclear weapons .
European officials have offered economic incentives in exchange for abandoning enrichment , but Tehran has resisted , saying its enrichment activities are for peaceful purposes .
Iran agreed in November to stop enriching uranium , but has insisted the move is temporary .
Kuwait has found the deadly H5N1 variety of avian flu in one of two infected birds culled by authorities .
The strain was found in a migrating flamingo , while a second , imported bird had the milder H5N2 variant .
Meanwhile , Vietnam said Friday , it will set up a medical facility for Cambodian bird flu patients near the border between the two countries in an effort to contain the spread of the virus .
Health officials said the small ward will be built at a hospital in Kien Luong district , 30 kilometers from the border , so Cambodian patients do not have to travel more deeply into Vietnam for treatment .
And on Thursday , China reported another outbreak of bird flu in a flock of chickens in northeastern Liaoning province - the country 's seventh outbreak in a month .
A new film premiering this week in South Korea dramatizes the suffering faced by tens of thousands of North Koreans who flee their country 's poverty and repression .
North Korean rights activists say the film 's emotional power may draw global attention to the issue .
VOA 's Kurt Achin has a preview .
Iran 's influential former president , Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani , has praised the late Pope John Paul II as a man of peace and offered his condolences to the world 's Christians on the loss of the Roman Catholic leader .
Speaking to Muslims at Friday prayers in Tehran , Mr. Rafsanjani praised the pope for opposing the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq and his condemnation of the abuse of prisoners at Abu Ghraib jail by some U.S. soldiers .
Mr. Rafsanjani , who has hinted at a comeback in June 's presidential election , asked how the Vatican could be indifferent to U.S. policies , which he said dishonor Jesus Christ .
Iran 's president , Mohammad Khatami , represented the Islamic Republic at the pontiff 's funeral Friday in Rome .
Sri Lankan officials say at least four people have been killed in clashes since unidentified gunmen killed a Tamil legislator Sunday .
Officials say soldiers shot and killed two suspected Tamil Tiger rebels during a search operation in the city of Batticaloa early Monday .
And two civilians were killed overnight in the neighboring Trincomalee district .
Meanwhile , preparations are underway for the funeral of Tamil legislator Joseph Pararajasingham , a key figure in the Tamil National Alliance party .
He was shot dead while attending Christmas Mass in Batticaloa .
The violence is the latest in a series of deadly attacks since rebel leader Velupillai Prabhakaran threatened to resume his struggle for an independent Tamil homeland if the government fails to reach a peace settlement within the next year .
Iranian opposition leader Mir Hossein Mousavi has accused Iran 's government of persecuting opponents in the name of Islam .
In comments published on his website late Sunday , Mousavi said Islam does not beat anyone , arrest people or keep them in prison .
He also rejected accusations by Iranian conservatives that the opposition is linked to external forces , saying such allegations do not benefit the country .
Iran 's opposition accuses conservative President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of rigging a presidential election last June to give himself a second term .
The opposition claims Mousavi was the rightful winner .
Mousavi 's website also quotes him as criticizing the government 's post-election crackdown on independent media .
He urged supporters of his Green Movement to keep raising awareness about their campaign for basic rights through social networking tools on the Internet .
Sudan 's government and southern rebels have signed a peace deal formally ending Africa 's longest-running war .
Sudanese Vice President Al Osman Mohammad Taha and rebel leader John Garang pledged to end more than 21 years of fighting during a ceremony Sunday in Nairobi , Kenya .
The ceremony included U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell who urged Sudan 's government to advance peace in a separate conflict in the western Darfur region .
Mr. Powell said Sudan 's future and its relationship with the United States rely on achieving peace throughout the entire nation .
Today 's peace deal includes terms for sharing power and oil resources , and calls on rebels and ruling party officials to form an interim coalition government , followed in six years by a southern vote on independence .
An estimated two million people have died during the war between the Arab-controlled government and mostly black southern rebels , mainly of famine and disease .
Iraqi officials say President Jalal Talabani is to travel to Tehran Monday to meet with Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .
The talks are expected to focus on the deteriorating security situation in Iraq and how Iran can help stem sectarian violence .
Iran is said to have influence with Shi'ite factions and militias in Iraq .
The New York Times newspaper says a bi-partisan panel studying U.S. strategic options in Iraq is expected to urge the Bush administration to undertake aggressive regional diplomacy , including direct talks with Iran and Syria .
The Times quoted officials familiar with the plan as saying the panel will not recommend a specific timetable for a military withdrawal .
Iraq 's Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki urged rival factions of his government to unite to prevent more sectarian violence , which killed a number of Iraqi across the country Sunday .
Mr. Maliki said public disputes among Iraq 's politicians are fueling the bloodshed .
Israeli Education Minister Yuli Tamir has ordered that new textbooks no longer show the occupied West Bank as part of Israel .
Tamir , a member of the Peace Now group that opposes West Bank settlement , said Tuesday the textbooks must show the Green Line that divides Israel from the West Bank .
Israel seized the territory in the 1967 Six-Day War .
About 2,00,000 Jews live in West Bank settlements , among more than two million Palestinians .
Israel occupies the area but has not annexed it .
Many settlers want the enclaves to be incorporated into the Jewish state .
The Palestinians hope to establish an independent state in the West Bank and Gaza Strip .
Pro-settlement Jewish activists are criticizing the education minister .
A member of parliament from Prime Minister Ehud Olmert 's Kadima party , Ronit Tirosh , said the minister has no right to make the decision .
Colombia has signed a free trade agreement with the four countries that make up the European Free Trade Association , EFTA .
A statement from the association says the Colombian trade minister , Luis Guillermo Plata , and his partners from Switzerland , Liechtenstein , Iceland and Norway signed the agreement Tuesday in Geneva .
Officials say the agreement covers Colombia 's industrial and agricultural exports .
EFTA ministers said they are confident the new trade opportunities with Colombia will contribute to economic growth and development among the participating countries .
EFTA was founded in 1960 and has 17 ongoing free trade treaties with countries ranging from Canada to Egypt .
A Vatican spokesman says Pope John Paul II tried to express his thanks when he was told about the crowd of thousands of young people gathered in St. Peter 's Square offering their prayers and support for him .
The spokesman says the pope apparently was thinking of the countless young Catholics he met during his many trips abroad - to 129 countries and foreign territories - when he tried to speak to the priests attending him late Friday .
The pope 's spokesman , Joaquin Navarro-Valls , told reporters that John Paul II " seemed to have said the following sentence : " I have looked for you .
Now you have come to me .
And I thank you . "
Asked for further details , Mr. Navarro-Valls said those words were " reconstructed " or pieced together from several attempts the pope made to speak late Friday .
Leaders from Africa and Germany are meeting in Berlin for a conference aimed at promoting sustainable development and economic growth in Africa .
Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf and Danish Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen are joining German Chancellor Angela Merkel in opening the conference .
The German government says the two-day meeting of the African Partnership Forum will serve to prepare recommendations for summits of the Group of Eight and the African Union .
G8 leaders are scheduled to meet in northern Germany on June 6 .
The Africa Partnership Initiative was established by the G8 in 2003 as a way to encourage dialogue between African nations and the world 's wealthiest countries .
Germany currently holds the rotating European Union and G8 presidencies .
The Swedish government continues to face criticism for a slow response to Asia 's tsunami disaster .
Local media have been very critical of the government of Prime Minister Goran Persson , noting that his Foreign Minister Laila Freivalds did not go to her office for more than a day after the tsunami was first reported .
Newspapers say hundreds of angry citizens have written letters and e-mails condemning the government 's response to the tragedy .
Sweden has been the hardest-hit Western nation , with more than 3,500 of its citizens unaccounted for and at least 59 known dead .
The prime minister has ordered an investigation , but has said that Ms. Freivalds is safe in her job .
Mr. Persson does not face re-election until September 2006 .
Meanwhile , flags flew at half-staff Sunday as Sweden , Finland and Norway marked an official day of mourning .
A flurry of new reports give a mixed assessment of the US economy Thursday .
The job market looks better , with the Labor Department reporting the biggest drop since 2001 in requests for first-time unemployment compensation .
Its report shows the number of such initial claims falling 43,000 to 3,17,000 last week .
But that news was tempered by other reports .
The Commerce Department says the deficit in U.S. foreign trade and investment , called the current account , hit a record $ 165 billion between July and September .
Many economists had predicted the gap between what Americans buy abroad and what they sell would be even worse .
Commerce also reported the number of new houses started in November dropped 13 percent , the sharpest decline in almost 11 years .
Indonesian health officials say local tests have confirmed a man has tested positive for the H5N1 strain of bird flu virus .
Authorities say the man , in his 20s , is in stable condition at a hospital in West Sumatra province .
Friday , the World Health Organization confirmed that a one-year-old girl had become the 23rd person in Indonesia to die of the H5N1 strain of bird flu .
Also Friday , representatives from the Pan American Health Organization , the Inter-American Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture and the Organization of American States met in Washington to discuss ways to head off a possible bird flu epidemic .
About 25 centers throughout the region already monitor outbreaks of influenza .
With the world sending much of its financial and technical aid to other geographic areas , the officials say it is important for the region to pool its resources .
The United States has reopened its embassy in the Saudi capital , Riyadh , but its consulate in Jeddah remains closed , two days after it was stormed by militants linked to al-Qaida .
An embassy spokeswoman says U.S. officials Wednesday ended the emergency closure of the embassy as well as a consular office in the eastern port of Dhahran .
The missions were closed after Monday 's attack that killed five non-American staff and four of the five gunmen .
U.S. officials say they are bolstering security at all U.S. missions in Saudi Arabia in the wake of the attack .
Tuesday , the U.S. State Department re-issued a travel warning for Saudi Arabia , saying private American citizens should leave the country or cancel plans to travel there .
The U.S. Marine Corps has ordered two Marines not to speak to the media about their accusations of prisoner abuse at the Guantanamo Bay detention center .
Both Marines are part of a military legal team defending a detainee at Guantanamo Bay .
Marine officials say the gag order was issued to ensure the legal team 's actions conform to professional standards .
Last week Lieutenant Colonel Colby Vokey and Sergeant Heather Cerveny released a report which included a sworn statement from Cerveny alleging she heard guards describing the physical and mental abuse of prisoners .
The Defense Department is investigating the accusations .
The United States has been widely criticized for creating and maintaining the Guantanamo Bay prison , where suspects from the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq are held for questioning .
The McDonald 's Corporation will have to answer a lawsuit filed by four New York teenagers who allege the company hid the health risks of hamburgers and Chicken McNuggets .
The suit blames McDonald 's for the teenagers ' obesity and health problems , and it asks billions of dollars in damages .
McDonald 's is the world 's largest fast-food chain , and company officials have called the lawsuit " frivolous . "
A district judge originally dismissed the suit , but an appeals court late Tuesday allowed the case to move forward and cleared the way for the teens to demand that McDonald 's turn over documents .
The case was originally filed in 2002 , and is the first obesity-related lawsuit against a food company to reach a judge .
Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso says Tokyo is planning to host a meeting with Israeli , Palestinian and Jordanian officials next month to help peace efforts in the Middle East .
Speaking Tuesday in Tokyo , Aso said plans have not been finalized , but Japan hopes the meeting will happen in mid-March .
He said the meeting would be a follow-up to a proposal by former Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi during a visit to the Middle East last July .
The proposal included Japanese economic assistance for development projects on the West Bank .
Mr. Koizumi 's trip to the Middle East was the first by a Japanese leader in a decade .
Japan 's current leader , Prime Minister Shinzo Abe , has not announced any official plans to visit the region .
The U.S. Food And Drug Administration ( FDA ) is searching for the cause of a salmonella outbreak that it has traced to raw tomatoes .
More than 165 people across the U.S. have become ill with salmonella poisoning since April .
On June 7 , the FDA issued an advisory , warning consumers not to eat several common types of tomatoes .
VOA Producer Barry Unger has more in a report voiced by Tony Budny .
More than 2,500 Sri Lankan Marxists have marched in Colombo to press the government to cancel planned peace talks with Tamil rebels and to punish them instead for a rash of killings blamed on the rebels .
The People 's Liberation Front , which left the coalition government over plans to share tsunami aid with the rebels , said it is time to get tough with the Tigers .
The protesters carried a picture of slain Foreign Minister Lakshman Kadirgamar , an ethnic Tamil who helped outlaw the Tamil Tigers in the United States and Britain .
The Sri Lankan government has blamed the group for his assassination , a charge denied by the Tamil Tigers .
Norwegian mediators are arranging emergency talks between the government and the rebels to find ways to save a more than three-year-old cease-fire .
British Foreign Secretary David Miliband is in Pakistan for talks with government leaders .
Officials say Miliband traveled Sunday to the northwestern city of Peshawar , capital of the volatile North West Frontier Province .
The British official is expected to meet with the provincial governor and other local officials to discuss security issues and ongoing cooperation .
Earlier this month , British Interior Minister Jacqui Smith said Britain is ready to increase its assistance to Pakistan to combat militancy .
Pakistan is a key Western ally and has helped the United States and Britain thwart terrorist attacks .
Pakistani officials say pro-Taleban militants have beheaded a taxi driver in a northwestern tribal region after accusing him of being a U.S. informant .
The officials say the taxi driver 's headless body was found Tuesday in South Waziristan .
He had been missing since last week .
Militants accused the man of working with U.S. forces across the border in Afghanistan .
He was the second taxi driver to be killed in the Pakistani tribal region this month in similar circumstances .
Pro-Taleban militants have been blamed for killing scores of local tribesmen accused of helping Pakistani or U.S. forces .
Pakistan has deployed 80,000 troops along its border with Afghanistan to root out foreign militants and their local allies .
Red Cross officials in Pakistan say a helicopter with a crew of seven returning home to Turkmenistan after assisting with earthquake relief is missing .
A relief agency official said Sunday the air control tower lost contact with the aircraft Friday as it crossed into Afghan airspace not long after taking off from Peshawar , Pakistan .
The Soviet-era Mi-8 helicopter from Turkmenistan had been chartered by the Red Cross for the earthquake relief effort in Pakistan for the past three months and was returning home after completing its mission .
The official says a search operation is under way to locate the helicopter and crew .
Dozens of angry Muslims in Pakistan 's southern city of Karachi protested Friday against the release of an anti-Islamic film by a Dutch lawmaker .
Members of the hard-line Islamist party Jamaat-i-Islami organized the protest , chanting " Death to the filmmaker " and demanding that Pakistan 's government sever diplomatic ties with The Netherlands .
The film , called Fitna , was made by Dutch lawmaker Geert Wilders and contains images of terrorist attacks and quotations from the Koran .
The Pakistani government Friday lodged a strong protest with the Netherlands , summoning the Dutch ambassador to Pakistan to condemn what it called the " defamatory " film .
Protests have erupted in Pakistan and Afghanistan in recent weeks in anticipation of the film 's release and after the reprinting of cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad in Danish newspapers .
NATO peacekeepers in Afghanistan say three Italian troops have been slightly wounded in a suicide car-bombing attack in the western city of Herat .
A spokesman for the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force told reporters in Kabul that the attacker was killed in the blast , which occurred Tuesday on the road from Herat airport to the city .
The spokesman says the Italians were wounded by flying glass from their vehicle , which was damaged by the explosion .
A purported Taleban spokesman , Qari Mohammed Yousuf , says his group carried out the attack - the latest in a spate of suicide bombings and other attacks in Afghanistan claimed by the Taleban .
A former U.S. contractor in Iraq has pleaded guilty to bribery , conspiracy and money laundering involving millions of dollars meant for reconstruction .
Robert Stein entered his plea in U.S. District Court in Washington Thursday .
Stein worked for the Coalition Provision Authority in Iraq , the temporary U.S.-led government , handing out millions of dollars intended to rebuild the city of Hilla , south of Baghdad .
Stein admitted he formed a ring of co-conspirators who diverted reconstruction money to such personal use as luxury cars , jewelry and U.S. real estate .
Stein has a prior fraud conviction and it was not immediately clear why he was allowed to control tens of millions of dollars , much of it in cash .
U.S. businessman Philip Bloom and five U.S. servicemen have also been implicated in the scheme .
Thai police say a bomb blast in southern Narthiwat province has injured at least 15 people .
The police say they do not yet know whether anyone was killed in the explosion , which occurred Thursday in the town of Sungai Kolok .
It was not immediately clear who was responsible .
But a Muslim separatist group called the Pattani United Liberation Organization had warned of a violent backlash over the deaths of some 84 people during protests Monday in southern Thailand .
Thai Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra has promised an investigation into the incident that brought widespread international outrage , particularly in majority Muslim countries Most of the deaths were attributed to suffocation after police packed detained protesters in a truck for transport to a detention center .
Pro-government lawmakers in Venezuela have appointed 17 new judges to the Supreme Court , strengthening the administration of President Hugo Chavez .
In Caracas Monday , legislators from the ruling party pushed the appointments through the 165-seat Congress .
Opposition leaders condemned the appointments as unconstitutional , and then walked out of the session .
Earlier this year , lawmakers approved measures that expanded the number of Supreme Court justices from 20 to 32 .
They also changed the rules to allow Congress to appoint judges with a simple majority , and to fire sitting justices .
Human rights groups have condemned the measures , saying they are a threat to democracy .
Among the new justices is Francisco Carrasquero , head of the nation 's electoral council .
Critics accuse him of helping Mr. Chavez defeat a recall in August .
North and South Korean officials have apparently made little progress toward reaching an agreement on the plight of South Korean prisoners of war and missing civilians South Korean officials believe are alive in the north .
Talks hosted by the Red Cross began Tuesday at the Mount Kumgang resort in North Korea .
The Yonhap news agency says that South Korean officials pushed for at least eight annual reunions for family members separated by the Korean War .
The report said North Korea instead suggested holding one reunion each June .
Seoul says more than 500 prisoners and hundreds of kidnapped civilians are still alive in the North .
Pyongyang denies holding any war prisoners and says any South Korean citizens in its country defected voluntarily .
On a separate issue , South Korea agreed to donate 1,50,000 tons of fertilizer to the impoverished North .
Two senior officials at the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency have turned in their resignations amid mounting turmoil since the recent appointment of a new director .
Deputy Director John McLaughlin announced his retirement from the spy agency Friday after 32 years of service .
The Washington Post newspaper quotes unidentified officials as saying he resigned after warning recently-appointed director Porter Goss that one of his top aides , chief of staff Patrick Murray , was " treating senior officials disrespectfully and risked widespread resignations . "
Deputy Director of Operations Stephen Kappes also tendered his resignation Friday , reportedly after a confrontation with the same aide .
The article says after offering his resignation , Mr. Kappes agreed to delay his decision until Monday .
It also says several other senior CIA officers have threatened to quit .
The CIA has been sharply criticized for intelligence failures leading up to the 2001 September 11 terrorist attacks and the Iraq war .
Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi has met with Peruvian President Alejandro Toledo on the sidelines of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in Busan , South Korea .
Japanese officials say Mr. Toledo told the Japanese leader that former Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori 's recent return to South America should not affect the two nations ' relationship .
Mr. Fujimori , a Japanese citizen , fled to Japan five years ago in the midst of a corruption scandal .
He was arrested last week in Chile .
If returned to Peru , he faces charges of corruption and of authorizing death squads .
Last week , Peru recalled its ambassador to Japan after a Japanese consular official visited Mr. Fujimori in jail .
Lima says Tokyo is interfering in his extradition process , but Tokyo insists it is treating him like any other Japanese citizen .
U.S. presidential candidates Hillary Clinton and John McCain have received endorsements by a newspaper in Iowa , where the first step in the election process takes place next month .
The Des Moines Register endorsed Senator Clinton for the Democratic Party nomination and Senator McCain for the Republican Party , saying they are the most competent and ready to lead of the 2008 presidential hopefuls .
Meanwhile , the Boston Globe newspaper endorsed Democratic Senator Barack Obama , saying he fulfills America 's need for a president with an intuitive sense of the wider world .
The newspaper also endorsed Senator McCain , calling him a straight talker who could help a polarized nation .
Iowa holds presidential caucuses on January 3 in which state voters from each party choose their preferred candidates for the November election .
The European Union has welcomed Sunday 's publication of Iraq 's draft constitution .
The EU presidency , held currently by British Prime Minister Tony Blair , issued a statement calling the document an " important milestone " in Iraq 's political process .
The EU statement urged all Iraqis to participate in the ratification vote scheduled for October .
It also offered EU help in preparing for that vote and for national elections scheduled for December .
The biggest U.S. bank , Citigroup , lost $ 5.1 billion in the first three months of this year after making bad investments in securities backed by home loans .
The losses reported Friday grew as more and more consumers also fell behind on car and credit-card loans .
Citigroup 's managers say they will cut costs sharply , focus on the most fundamental parts of their business , and fire another 9,000 of their 3,70,000 workers .
It is the second major quarterly loss for Citigroup , and it is the latest in a wave of dismal bank earning reports over the past week .
Merrill Lynch revealed a $ 2 billion loss and 3,000 job cuts on Thursday .
Witnesses and aid groups in Sudan say at least 40 people have been killed in tribal clashes in Darfur .
The witnesses said Sunday at least 21 people were wounded in the violence Saturday .
Tribal conflicts are becoming an increasing concern in Darfur , where people are already struggling with fighting between rebels and government forces along with militias backed by Khartoum .
The United States has called the fighting genocide against the people of Darfur .
More than 2,00,000 people have been killed in Darfur since 2003 .
That was when a conflict over land and water resources turned violent after non-Arab rebels accused the Arab-dominated government of neglect .
The government has been accused of arming militias , called Janjaweed , to crush the rebels in a brutal campaign of rape and murder .
Some reports say tribal members blamed Saturday 's attack on the Janjaweed .
Hundreds of Saudi riot police have launched a crackdown on would-be protesters in the cities of Riyadh and Jeddah , in a show of force triggered by an exiled dissident 's call for anti-government demonstrations .
There are reports of arrests in both cities , but authorities have not yet commented .
Public protests are banned in the kingdom .
About an hour after the protests were set to begin Thursday , Western news reports say the demonstrations failed to materialize in either city .
Earlier this week , London-based dissident Saad al-Fagih , who heads the Movement for Islamic Reform , called for tens of thousands of Saudis to protest after noon prayers Thursday against the Saudi monarchy .
Last year , he accused Saudi agents of attempting to kill him in a stabbing incident at his London home .
The Saudi government denied any involvement .
Pakistan has again expressed support for the European Union 's efforts for a negotiated settlement to Tehran 's dispute with Washington over Iran 's nuclear program .
Foreign Minister Khursheed Kasuri told a news conference Pakistan would like to support the European approach because the Islamic world can not afford another conflict after U.S.-led wars in Afghanistan and Iraq .
He says Pakistan has been talking to the United States , the European Union and Iran to defuse tensions .
Last month , President Bush said the United States could not rule out using force if Iran fails to rein in its nuclear plans .
Iran denies U.S charges that it is seeking to develop nuclear weapons .
Last year , the father of Pakistan 's nuclear bomb , Abdul Qadeer Khan , admitted selling nuclear secrets to Iran .
Bombs targeting Iraqi troops in Baghdad and police in the north of the country have killed at least 10 people .
Police say a truck bomb attack on a police station in the northern city of Mosul killed four people and wounded more than 30 others Tuesday .
In Baghdad , a car bomb blast near an Iraqi army checkpoint killed three soldiers and three civilians , and wounded 25 other people .
In other violence , three Iraqi policemen were shot to death by gunmen at a checkpoint in eastern Baghdad .
Separately , the U.S military in Iraq says it captured four wanted men and detained six suspected terrorists during operations to disrupt al-Qaida networks in central Iraq .
Iran has rejected the possibility of suspending its uranium enrichment program , after world powers agreed to discuss sanctions against Tehran .
Foreign Ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini said Sunday that suspending Iran 's enrichment program is , in his words , completely unacceptable .
He also said Tehran wants to solve the issue through talks , not sanctions .
On Friday , the five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council and Germany agreed to discuss possible non-military sanctions against Iran for its failure to meet an August 31 U.N. deadline to stop enriching uranium .
The United States and Britain have lobbied for sanctions , while Russia and China have said the standoff should be resolved through negotiations .
Western nations believe Iran wants to make nuclear weapons .
Iran says its nuclear program is only for peaceful purposes .
The European Union 's top official for Bulgaria says reopening two shuttered Bulgarian nuclear reactors is " out of the question . "
Michael Humphreys said at a Balkans energy conference in Sofia Monday that closing the reactors is part of Bulgaria 's membership agreement with the EU .
He said all 26 other EU members would have to agree to change Bulgaria 's membership deal .
He calls that impossible .
Bulgaria was forced to close reactors three and four of the Kozloduy nuclear power plant because of safety concerns .
Energy ministers and other top officials from five Balkan nations - Albania , Bulgaria , Croatia , Macedonia , and Serbia - urged the EU in a statement to allow the reactors to temporarily reopen until other electricity sources can be found .
The officials say they fear closing the reactors will create a regional energy shortage .
Swiss Reinsurance Company , the world 's second-biggest reinsurer , says the global insurance industry could face some $ 20 billion in claims from Hurricanes Rita and Wilma .
The Zurich-based company estimates the cost from Rita will be around $ 10 billion , while damage claims from Wilma could range from $ 6 billion to $ 12 billion .
Insurance companies were already reeling from Hurricane Katrina , which analysts say will cost the industry at least $ 40 billion .
Swiss Reinsurance announced Wednesday that its own earnings will be hurt by the recent string of storms to hit the U.S. Gulf coast .
The company says it expects claims of $ 750 million from Rita and Wilma , on top of an estimated $ 1.3 billion in claims from Katrina .
Reinsurers sell back-up insurance to other insurance companies , spreading risk so losses from major natural disasters can be covered .
U.S. aircraft maker Boeing has received $ 5 billion worth of orders for its new and upgraded version of its 747 jetliner .
Boeing says that Cargolux Airlines of Luxembourg has ordered 10 of its new 747-8 aircraft , with purchase rights for an additional 10 jets .
Japan-based Nippon Cargo has ordered eight of the new jets , with options for 10 more .
The airlines will begin receiving the new jets in 2009 .
The head of Boeing 's commercial airplanes division says the new 747 will utilize engines designed for its new 787 Dreamliner passenger jet to make it quieter and more efficient .
Boeing is competing against Europe 's Airbus consortium for dominance of the international aviation market .
Airbus is preparing its new A-380 superjumbo jet for service beginning next year .
Authorities in Ethiopia say several people were injured Tuesday from two explosions in the capital , Addis Ababa .
Officials say the first blast occurred at a hotel , injuring four people and damaging the building .
They say the second explosion happened in a market in Addis Ababa , but no injuries were reported there .
There was no immediate indication of what caused the explosions .
Chechnya 's Kremlin-backed government has dismissed a purported separatist statement pledging to observe a ceasefire throughout this month .
Russian media quote Chechen President Alu Alkhanov as describing the declaration as a " trick " and an attempt by the separatists to gain attention .
A web site linked to Chechen separatists posted the ceasefire offer Wednesday said to be from their top leaders Aslan Maskhadov and Shamil Basayev .
Meanwhile , an independent British television station has announced plans to broadcast an interview with Mr. Basayev in which he is said to warn of more terrorist attacks in Russia .
Russian officials have demanded that the station not air the segment , calling it irresponsible to spread the views of a wanted terrorist .
Mr. Basayev has taken responsibility for a number of bloody attacks , including the siege of a school last year that led to the deaths of more than 330 people .
President Bush has vowed to increase the number of needy countries the United States aids through the Millennium Challenge Corporation , which rewards nations making democratic and free-market reforms .
Mr. Bush said Tuesday that nearly two dozen new countries have been selected as eligible for aid .
He spoke during the swearing-in ceremony of John Danilovich , the corporation 's new chief executive officer .
President Bush said he has asked Mr. Danilovich to implement several new agreements with developing countries in upcoming months .
The corporation currently has agreements with Armenia , Benin , Cape Verde , Georgia , Honduras , Madagascar , and Nicaragua .
The corporation gives development aid to needy countries that are judged to govern justly and encourage economic freedom .
The aid goes toward projects in agriculture , education , and private sector development .
The British military says one of its soldiers has died fighting insurgents in Afghanistan .
The military says the British Royal Marine was killed Wednesday in the Nad-e-Ali district near Lashkar Gah , the capital of Helmand province .
About 70,000 international forces are in Afghanistan fighting a Taliban insurgency that has raged since the United States pushed the group from power in 2001 .
On Wednesday , Afghan and international troops said they had captured a senior insurgent commander in a raid on a suspected insurgent cell in Baghlan province .
A joint statement from the Afghan and U.S. militaries said insurgent Mullah Dahoud is suspected of involvement in a deadly October attack in Baghlan and the 2007 bombing of a sugar factory , which killed more than 50 people .
The U.S. Secretary of Energy says it may take about six months to restore Iraq 's oil output to pre-war levels of 2.5 million barrels a day .
Samuel Bodman made the comments in Baghdad Tuesday , where he called Iraqi estimates that they could boost production to three million barrels a day " optimistic . "
Bodman also said Iraq is working on a new " hydrocarbons law " intended to set a legal framework to attract and regulate badly needed investment by foreign oil companies .
He said Iraqi officials hope to finish the law by the end of this year .
Iraq has the second largest oil reserves in the Middle East , but oil production suffers from years of sanctions , war , and insurgent attacks on key infrastructure .
China says its exports rose 21 percent in January from the same period a year ago , a further sign that its economy has withstood the global recession .
The figures released by the General Administration of Customs Wednesday show exports totaled over $ 109 billion .
January 's increase follows on the heels of a 17.7 percent increase in December .
Officials says last month 's export increase was partly due to the comparison with a period of low activity last year , when companies were idled for the Lunar New Year .
The customs office also says imports soared 85.5 percent in January .
The import and export figures taken together made a $ 14.2 billion trade surplus for the month .
But in a month-on-month basis , exports dropped 16.3 percent in January from December , and imports fell 15.1 percent .
Angola is rebuilding its country after the end of a 27-year civil war in 2002 .
Fighting between the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola ( MPLA ) , led by Jose Eduardo DOS SANTOS , and the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola ( UNITA ) , led by Jonas SAVIMBI , followed independence from Portugal in 1975 .
Peace seemed imminent in 1992 when Angola held national elections , but fighting picked up again by 1996 .
Up to 1.5 million lives may have been lost - and 4 million people displaced - in the quarter century of fighting .
SAVIMBI 's death in 2002 ended UNITA 's insurgency and strengthened the MPLA 's hold on power .
President DOS SANTOS held legislative elections in September 2008 and , despite promising to hold presidential elections in 2009 , has since pushed through a new constitution that calls for elections in 2012 .
Saint Helena is a British Overseas Territory consisting of Saint Helena and Ascension Islands , and the island group of Tristan da Cunha .
Since independence in 1968 , Mauritius has developed from a low-income , agriculturally based economy to a middle-income diversified economy with growing industrial , financial , and tourist sectors .
For most of the period , annual growth has been in the order of 5 % to 6 % .
This remarkable achievement has been reflected in more equitable income distribution , increased life expectancy , lowered infant mortality , and a much-improved infrastructure .
The economy rests on sugar , tourism , textiles and apparel , and financial services , and is expanding into fish processing , information and communications technology , and hospitality and property development .
Sugarcane is grown on about 90 % of the cultivated land area and accounts for 15 % of export earnings .
The government 's development strategy centers on creating vertical and horizontal clusters of development in these sectors .
Mauritius has attracted more than 32,000 offshore entities , many aimed at commerce in India , South Africa , and China .
Investment in the banking sector alone has reached over $ 1 billion .
Mauritius , with its strong textile sector , has been well poised to take advantage of the Africa Growth and Opportunity Act ( AGOA ) .
Mauritius ' sound economic policies and prudent banking practices helped to mitigate negative effects from the global financial crisis in 2008 - 9 .
GDP grew 3.6 % in 2010 and the country continues to expand its trade and investment outreach around the globe .
First explored by the Spaniards in the 16th century and then settled by the English in the mid-17th century , Suriname became a Dutch colony in 1667 .
With the abolition of slavery in 1863 , workers were brought in from India and Java .
Independence from the Netherlands was granted in 1975 .
Five years later the civilian government was replaced by a military regime that soon declared a socialist republic .
It continued to exert control through a succession of nominally civilian administrations until 1987 , when international pressure finally forced a democratic election .
In 1990 , the military overthrew the civilian leadership , but a democratically elected government - a four-party coalition - returned to power in 1991 .
The coalition expanded to eight parties in 2005 and ruled until August 2010 , when voters returned former military leader Desire BOUTERSE and his opposition coalition to power .
Colonized by English settlers from Saint Kitts in 1650 , Anguilla was administered by Great Britain until the early 19th century , when the island - against the wishes of the inhabitants - was incorporated into a single British dependency along with Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Several attempts at separation failed .
In 1971 , two years after a revolt , Anguilla was finally allowed to secede ; this arrangement was formally recognized in 1980 with Anguilla becoming a separate British dependency .
AN ASS , being driven along a high road , suddenly started off and bolted to the brink of a deep precipice .
While he was in the act of throwing himself over , his owner seized him by the tail , endeavoring to pull him back .
When the Ass persisted in his effort , the man let him go and said , " Conquer , but conquer to your cost . "
A willful beast must go his own way
A funny old lion , who had the misfortune to lose his mane , was wearing a wig as he was taking a stroll on a very windy day .
Looking up , he spied one of the charming Tiger sisters across the street , and , wishing to make an impression , smiled blandly and made a beautiful low bow .
At that moment a very smart gust of wind came up , and the consequence was that his wig flew off and left him there , feeling foolish and looking worse , with his bald head glistening like a billiard ball .
Though somewhat embarrassed at first , he smiled at the Lady and said : " Is it a wonder that another fellow 's hair should n't keep on my head , when my own would n't stay there ? "
" Wit always has an answer ready . "
A WOODCHOPPER , who had dropped his axe into a deep pool , besought Mercury to recover it for him .
That thoughtless deity immediately plunged into the pool , which became so salivated that the trees about its margin all came loose and dropped out .
A LION roaming through the forest , got a thorn in his foot , and , meeting a Shepherd , asked him to remove it .
The Shepherd did so , and the Lion , having just surfeited himself on another shepherd , went away without harming him .
Some time afterward the Shepherd was condemned on a FALSE accusation to be cast to the lions in the amphitheatre .
When they were about to devour him , one of them said :
" This is the man who removed the thorn from my foot . "
Hearing this , the others honourably abstained , and the claimant ate the Shepherd all himself .
A couple of Yogi Berra 's teammates on the Yankees ball club swear that one night the stocky catcher was horrified to see a baby toppling off the roof of a cottage across the way from him .
Yogi dashed over and made a miraculous catch - but then force of habit proved too much for him .
He straightened up and threw the baby to second base .
The bathtub was invented in 1850 .
The telephone was invented in 1875 .
This might not seem like much but , if you had lived back then , you could have sat in the bathtub for 25 years without being bothered by the phone
This particular Wizard worked in a modern factory .
Everything was satisfactory except that certain miscreants took advantage of his good nature , and would steal his parking spot .
This continued until he put up the following effective sign :
This parking space belongs to the Wizard .
...
Violators will be toad .
Israel 's interim prime minister , Ehud Olmert , says he hopes to resume peace talks after both the Israeli and the Palestinian parliamentary elections .
Palestinians are to hold their legislative vote on January 25 , and Israeli elections are set for March 28 .
Mr. Olmert said resuming peace talks will depend on Israel 's long-standing demand that Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas disarm militant groups .
He said the basis for the talks would be the U.S.-backed " road map " peace plan , which calls for the establishment of a Palestinian state .
Also Tuesday , Israeli police began forcibly removing right-wing settlers from the West Bank city of Hebron .
The settlers have been protesting a court order evicting Jewish squatters from an abandoned Palestinian market in the city .
Elsewhere in the West Bank , Israeli troops shot and killed a wanted Palestinian militant in Tulkarem .
The United States says it will respond to European concerns about reports of secret prisons in Europe and transport flights for terror suspects .
A State Department spokesman , Sean McCormack , said Tuesday that Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice assured visiting German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier that Washington will reply to an expected query from the European Union .
Mr. Steinmeier said U.S. officials also have agreed to respond to European questions on the matter .
The State Department spokesman said Secretary Rice told Mr. Steinmeier that all U.S. activities comply with American laws and the constitution .
Recent media reports say the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency allegedly runs secret prisons in eastern Europe for terrorist suspects .
There also have been reports of flights transporting CIA prisoners through EU airspace .
U.S. authorities have refused to confirm or deny the reports .
Opinion polls in Israel indicate support for Prime Minister Ariel Sharon 's new centrist Kadima party is still strong ahead of the March 28 election despite the massive stroke that has incapacitated the Israeli leader .
A poll published Friday in the Yediot Ahronot daily newspaper found that the Kadima party under acting Prime Minister Ehud Olmert would win 39 of 120 parliament seats , well ahead of the right-wing Likud party and moderate Labor party .
A poll published by the Ha'aretz daily newspaper had similar results .
The opinion polls are the first to test the future for Mr. Sharon 's new party since the prime minister suffered a massive stroke on Wednesday and was said by doctors to be unlikely to return to his post .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says some of Russia 's efforts at democratic reform are " going in the wrong direction . "
Rice told CBS television Sunday that the way Russia used energy against Ukraine and a new law regulating non-governmental organizations are problems .
Russia cut off natural gas supplies to Ukraine during a price dispute last month , causing gas shortages in Europe .
Ukraine called it a political move .
Rice said despite Washington 's concerns , the situation in Russia is better than it was in the former Soviet Union and that U.S.-Russian relations are the best they have been for quite some time .
French Prime Minister Francois Fillon said in China Tuesday that any misunderstandings between Paris and Beijing are a thing of the past .
Mr. Fillon told Chinese university students in Beijing the countries now want to build a relationship based on " mutual respect . "
Tensions between Paris and Beijing grew last year when French President Nicolas Sarkozy met the Dalai Lama .
China accuses the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader of seeking independence for the Himalayan region , which the Buddhist leader denies .
Fillon traveled to Beijing to smooth both diplomatic and economic relations .
He oversaw the signing of 12 deals involving aviation , energy , culture and water resource utilization .
Fillon held talks with Chinese President Hu Jintao and parliamentary speaker Wu Bangguo , a day after meeting Premier Wen Jiabao .
British authorities have charged a third man in connection with last month 's failed car bombings in London and Glasgow , Scotland .
Police said Saturday they charged an Indian-born doctor , Sabeel Ahmed , 26 , with having information that could prevent an act of terrorism .
Ahmed 's brother , Kafeel , remains hospitalized with severe burns suffered when he and another man allegedly rammed a vehicle packed with gasoline and gas canisters into Glasgow airport 's main entrance .
Earlier today , Australian police charged Indian-born doctor Mohammed Haneef , 27 , with providing " reckless " support to a terrorist organization allegedly behind the three failed bombings on June 29 and 30 .
Haneef was the second person charged in connection with the failed attacks in London and Glasgow .
He is reported to be a cousin of Kafeel and Sabeel Ahmed .
Authorities say he shared a house in Liverpool with them for about two years .
The head of the U.S. central bank says a variety of factors , from a weaker dollar to tougher budget discipline in Congress , may help restrain the rapid growth in the nation 's trade deficit .
In remarks prepared for a speech in London , Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan cautioned that the unprecedented level of economic interaction between countries makes it difficult to predict what will happen to the U.S. trade deficit .
Economists say that to finance the trade gap , the United States depends on the willingness of foreigners to lend money to the country through investments like stocks and bonds .
Analysts worry that the declining dollar might prompt investors to abruptly sell their stocks , which could push the dollar down further and force interest rates up .
That could slow the U.S. economy and hurt nations that export to the huge U.S. market .
A federal judge in the U.S. state of Iowa has awarded a small Internet service provider more than one billion dollars in a lawsuit aimed against unsolicited commercial e-mails , known as spam .
The ruling Friday is believed to be the largest judgment ever against people or companies who send spam .
Robert Kramer , whose company provides e-mail service for about 5,000 users in Iowa , had filed a lawsuit against some 300 spammers in 2003 .
Mr. Kramer 's lawyer says the entire judgment will probably never be collected , but he hopes to recover costs caused by the spammers .
Mr. Kramer said spam clogged his server system , frequently disabling it .
He said he spent thousands of dollars upgrading his servers to handle the heavy flow of spam .
NATO officials say they plan to use smaller bombs in Afghanistan to limit the rise in civilian casualties .
NATO Secretary-General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer said the number of civilians killed during fighting between NATO with the Taleban has damaged the reputation of the alliance .
He added that NATO commanders recently instructed troops to hold off attacking rebels in situations where civilians would be at risk .
The NATO chief spoke in an interview published Monday by the Financial Times .
In the past , Scheffer has blamed Taleban militants for using Afghan civilians as human shields .
The coalition in Afghanistan has been criticized for the number of civilian casualties resulting from combat operations against the Taleban and other militants .
Last month , Afghan President Hamid Karzai accused NATO and U.S.-led forces of killing 90 civilians in air strikes and artillery fire against the Taleban .
Palestinian medical officials say Israeli troops have killed three Palestinian militants in the West Bank .
Hospital officials say two of the men were shot dead Friday , near the al-Faraa refugee camp , in the northern West Bank .
The third was killed in the village of al-Yamoun .
The Israeli army says its troops opened fire on the men during operations against militants in the areas .
European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana Thursday called on Israelis and Palestinians to show more flexibility in helping to restart the Middle East peace process .
Solana made his plea after meeting with Israel 's Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni in Tel Aviv .
He urged Israel to reopen a border crossing between the Gaza Strip and Egypt , which Israel closed for security reasons .
Pakistani police say the country 's former President Pervez Musharraf faces arrest if he returns to Pakistan .
Police registered a case Tuesday against Mr. Musharraf over his detention of judges during a political crisis in 2007 .
He could serve three years in jail if convicted .
Last month , the Supreme Court ruled that Mr. Musharraf violated the constitution when he imposed emergency rule and dismissed top judges in an effort to hold onto the presidency .
The former military chief resigned as president last year to avoid impeachment .
He has been living in London the past two months .
Mr. Musharraf was replaced by Asif Ali Zardari , the widower of slain former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto , whose Pakistan People 's Party had won parliamentary elections .
France has unveiled plans to improve education and tackle job discrimination , as part of new measures to expand opportunities following three weeks of riots in largely ethnic North African-inhabited areas .
Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin told his monthly news conference Thursday the country must strive to make equality of opportunity a reality for everyone - with the focus on jobs and education .
He pledged to direct more aid to education districts with mainly low-income populations , and he outlined plans for a contract of parental responsibility to ensure that parents are involved in their children 's education .
Mr. de Villepin also said acts of discrimination will be punishable by fines of up to $ 30,000 .
The new measures follow the country 's worst civil unrest in almost 40 years .
The deaths in late October of two teenagers hiding from police near Paris set off the rioting .
Top Iraqi officials greeted the new U.S. Ambassador to Iraq James Jeffery at a ceremony in Baghdad Wednesday .
The ambassador presented his diplomatic credentials to Iraqi President Jalal Talabani and Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari .
Jeffery is a career diplomat who has served as the former ambassador to Turkey .
He previously served as special state department advisor for Iraq and as the deputy chief of mission in Baghdad .
Jeffrey was appointed to the Iraqi post by the U.S. Senate earlier this month .
His arrival comes two weeks before the U.S. is scheduled to end its combat mission in Iraq and with the Iraqi political process hamstrung over the formation of a ruling government coalition .
Jeffrey succeeds Christopher Hill who has retired from the U.S. foreign service .
A U.S. Navy plane was destroyed Tuesday when it overshot the runway at Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan .
U.S. military authorities say one crew member was slightly injured when the Navy P-3 Orion overshot the runway while landing at the base - the largest U.S. military facility in Afghanistan .
Authorities at the base say the plane sustained serious structural and fire damage as a result of the crash .
They say an investigation has begun into what caused the incident .
The P-3 Orion is a workhorse of the Naval aviation fleet and is used as a reconnaissance aircraft and for maritime and anti-submarine patrol activities .
India 's defense ministry says it has successfully tested a nuclear-capable ballistic missile from a ship near the east coast .
The Dhanush missile , developed by India , was fired Friday from a ship , the Subhadra , in the Bay of Bengal off the coast of Orissa .
It has a striking range of at least 250 kilometers .
The missile , which can carry both nuclear and conventional weapons , is a naval version of India 's surface-to-surface Prithvi .
Earlier this month , India 's nuclear rival , neighboring Pakistan , said it successfully test-fired a nuclear-capable cruise missile .
Pakistan and India often conduct such tests to demonstrate their defensive readiness .
The two rivals normally give each other notice for long-range missile launches .
World-renowned Russian choreographer Igor Moiseyev has died at the age of 101 .
Russian news media reports say Moiseyev died Friday of heart failure in Moscow .
President Vladimir Putin expressed his condolences to relatives and colleagues .
Moiseyev established his professional folk dance group , the Moiseyev Dance Company , in 1937 and remained at its helm for six decades .
Soviet leaders favored the choreographer , although he was not a member of the Communist Party .
His dance group was one of the first permitted to travel abroad .
Moiseyev 's innovative choreography combined balletic movement with traditional folk steps .
His performances included acrobatic Caucasus mountain dances as well as American rock-and-roll .
Audiences hailed them as promoting tolerance and appreciation for diverse cultures .
Iraqi police say a bomb exploded in a crowded animal market in central Baghdad Friday , killing at least 13 people .
Authorities say nearly 60 others were wounded in the blast , including several police officers .
The Souq al-Ghazl market in Baghdad also was bombed earlier this year .
In the northern city of Mosul , police say a suicide car bombing targeting a police patrol killed at least nine people , including at least three policemen .
Today 's explosions came amid a decrease in violence across the nation .
In separate news today , Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk said his government will withdraw all of its troops from Iraq in 2008 .
Poland has about 900 soldiers in southern Iraq .
A Hungarian government spokesman says the deadly strain of bird flu virus has been found in the southern part of Hungary .
The spokesman , Andras Batiz , said Tuesday three wild swans found last week have tested positive for the H5N1 virus .
German veterinary officials Tuesday confirmed 22 new cases of flu in birds on the island of Ruegen bringing the total in the country to 103 .
The German government announced Monday the virus had spread to the mainland .
One hundred three cases have now been found in wild birds in Germany .
Croatia has confirmed the H5N1 virus in a wild swan found dead last week .
France and the Netherlands are petitioning EU animal health experts so they can vaccinate their poultry .
Some EU countries are skeptical if such inoculations can ward off the deadly virus .
Bird flu has killed more than 90 people since 2003 in Asia .
The stage is set for football 's World Cup in Germany , after the organizing committee approved the newly laid playing field at the stadium in Hanover .
With the approval of the Hanover field Wednesday , all 12 stadiums now have playing surfaces that fit the requirements of 25 percent rye grass and 75 percent Kentucky bluegrass .
Field preparations at the stadiums included more than 96,000 square meters of new turf .
Organizers say the fields now will be mown , fertilized and watered in a what is billed as a " carefully orchestrated program to bring the surfaces into perfect condition " and to the approved height of 2.8 centimeters .
Moroccan authorities say six African migrants were killed as hundreds of people tried to illegally enter a Spanish enclave in North Africa .
They described the migrants as extraordinarily violent in their Thursday attempt to scale the razor-wire fence surrounding Melilla .
Moroccan police arrested 290 people during the incident - the latest of almost daily attempts to enter Melilla or Ceuta , the other Spanish enclave bordering Morocco , in hope of making it to the European Union .
Five immigrants died last week trying to enter Ceuta .
But Spanish officials say their troops were not responsible because they did not use live ammunition .
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero has called on the European Union to boost economic cooperation with Africa to help stem the flow of economic immigrants from the continent .
Spain is also starting to return to Morocco any Africans who make it into the enclave .
Iraq 's female politicians plan to push for more positions in Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki 's new Cabinet , which includes only one woman .
Female lawmakers say they will petition Iraq 's top leaders and international organizations for more Cabinet posts .
The Cabinet Maliki unveiled Tuesday allocated two posts for women .
One woman leads a ministry with no job description , no office and no budget .
The other , a Kurdish lawmaker , was offered the women 's affairs post but turned it down .
In approving the new government Tuesday , Iraq 's parliament filled 29 of the 42 Cabinet positions .
" Acting ministers " comprise the 13 remaining posts until permanent successors are accepted by parliament .
Approval of the new Cabinet potentially ends a nine-month political stalemate following inconclusive elections in March .
The Cabinet held its first meeting on Wednesday .
Published reports say four Turkish soldiers have been killed in fighting with Kurdish rebels in southeastern Turkey .
The reports say the soldiers were killed Tuesday in the southeastern province of Sirnak , near the Iraqi border .
Kurdistan Workers ' Party rebels have carried out a series of deadly attacks on Turkish troops in southeastern Turkey in recent weeks .
Turkey has threatened to launch a military operation in northern Iraq to attack PKK rebels who take refuge there .
Meanwhile , there are conflicting reports about a Turkish aerial incursion into northern Iraq today .
Some reports quote Iraqi Kurdish officials and witnesses as saying Turkish aircraft bombed abandoned villages near the Turkish border , without causing casualties .
Another report quotes an Iraqi Kurdish official as saying Turkish aircraft only dropped flares in the area .
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said today that he is not aware of any Turkish air strikes in northern Iraq .
Two leading U.S. senators say the plan to raise U.S. troop strength in Iraq ahead of elections there falls short of what is needed .
In interviews Sunday , Senators John McCain of Arizona and Joe Biden of Delaware both expressed doubt that an additional 12,000 troops would be enough .
The military 's plan , announced Wednesday , is aimed at improving security in time for Iraq 's January 30th elections .
On ABC television 's This Week program , Senator Biden said he is concerned that " civil chaos " could derail the elections in Sunni Muslim areas .
And on the television program FOX News Sunday , Mr. McCain accused the military of letting insurgents in Iraq take the initiative .
The plan will take U.S. troops strength in Iraq up to 1,50,000 .
Saturday , U.S. General John Abizaid said the increase was necessary because Iraqi security forces need more training .
United States national team captain Claudio Reyna has retired from international soccer , one day after his team was eliminated from the World Cup in Germany .
Reyna , who has been the U.S. captain for almost eight years , made the announcement Friday .
On Thursday , his final World Cup game ended with a disappointing loss and injury .
The United States finished last in Group-E with one point after losing 02-Jan to Ghana on Thursday .
Reyna sprained a ligament in his left knee in the first half , losing the ball in a challenge that led to Ghana 's first goal .
The U.S. captain played a key role in the team 's run to the quarterfinals at the 2002 World Cup in South Korea and Japan .
Reyna scored eight goals in 112 appearances with the U.S. team .
He plans to continue to play club football with Manchester City in England .
Some 100 people have been killed in and around Baghdad in one of the bloodiest days in Iraq in weeks .
In the deadliest attack Tuesday , a double bombing near a university killed at least 65 people and wounded more than 100 others .
Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki blamed the attack on what he called " terrorists and Saddamists . "
He linked the bombings to the executions on Monday of two former officials from Saddam Hussein 's ousted government .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military said a roadside bombing killed four American soldiers Monday in northern Iraq .
And a top U.N. official in Baghdad , Gianni Magazzeni , announced that more than 34,000 Iraqi civilians were killed and more than 36,000 wounded in violence last year .
The figures are much higher than Iraqi government estimates .
Magazzeni said the situation is particularly grave in Baghdad , where most casualties and unidentified bodies are recorded daily .
Hopes are fading that rescuers will find more survivors in the rubble of a five-story building that collapsed in Nairobi , Kenya on Monday .
Rescue teams continue to cut through piles of concrete and metal , but they have not pulled out any more survivors after saving at least three on Tuesday .
Kenyan government spokesman Alfred Mutua says rescuers are no longer hearing any signs of life from under the wreckage .
Officials say 13 people are confirmed to have died in the collapse , but they predict the death toll will rise .
An unknown number of laborers were inside the building , which was still under construction when it suddenly collapsed Monday afternoon .
More than 100 people were injured in the collapse , which officials have blamed on poor construction and government negligence .
An Indian company , eChoupal , has been selected to receive this year 's Development Gateway Award for its use of technology to make agricultural information available to farmers in rural India .
eChoupal received the $ 1,00,000 award Friday at a forum in Beijing co-hosted by the Chinese government and the World Bank .
eChoupal installed more than 5,000 computer kiosks in villages around India where farmers could use them to learn management techniques , order fertilizer less expensively , and monitor market prices .
The Development Gateway Award recognizes efforts to use information technology to enhance the quality of life in communities around the world .
eChoupal was selected from among 135 nominees for the award .
Iraqi police have arrested at least two suspects Thursday and recovered millions of dollars from a bank robbery that left eight guards dead .
Officials in Baghdad say police raided the home of an Iraqi soldier where they found the stolen money .
Reports vary as to the total amount stolen and whether all or only part was recovered .
But officials say at least several million dollars have been returned to the bank .
The money was stolen from the Rafidain bank in Baghdad 's Karrada district on Tuesday .
Eight security guards were shot and killed during the robbery .
The heist came only two days after gunmen opened fire at a money exchange office in the same area , killing at least three people .
A radical Muslim cleric on trial in London on charges of advocating murder of non-Muslims has denied inciting any killings .
Abu Hamza al-Masri took the stand stressing opposition to racism .
When his lawyers asked if he had advocated killings he replied he did not advocate murder but supported what he termed combat .
The attorney then mentioned Afghanistan .
The defendant is the former chief preacher at Finsbury Park mosque in north London .
He faces at least 15 charges that include stirring racial hatred , as well as possession of threatening recordings and a terrorist document .
The Egyptian-born cleric , who gained international notoriety for his fiery sermons , has denied any role in terrorism .
The United States has sought to extradite him on terrorism charges .
Abu Hamza al-Masri says he lost both hands and an eye fighting Soviet forces in Afghanistan in the 1980s .
The U.S. military in Iraq says at least six Iraqi policemen were killed in a car bomb explosion in the northern town of Tikrit Tuesday .
Officials say several policemen were also wounded in the attack believed to have been carried out by a suicide bomber .
Separately , at least seven people were killed in a small town south of Baghdad .
The victims were passengers of a minibus passing through an area known as the " triangle of death . "
The killings were the latest in a wave of attacks across Iraq , as insurgents pressed on with their campaign of violence ahead of the country 's January 30 election .
Hurricane Danielle is picking up strength over the Atlantic Ocean , and weather forecasters say it could soon become a major storm .
The U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami says Danielle is now a Category Two hurricane on the five-point scale of hurricane strength , with sustained winds of nearly 165 kilometers per hour .
At last report , Danielle was about 1,000 kilometers northeast of the Northern Leeward Islands and moving toward Bermuda .
Farther east over the Atlantic , the winds of Tropical Storm Earl are at nearly 75 kilometers per hour .
The National Hurricane Center says the storm is expected to get stronger and could become a hurricane by Saturday .
Meanwhile , in the Pacific , Hurricane Frank is expected to start weakening Friday .
Frank earlier soaked Mexico 's southern coast , where heavy rains killed four people .
The U.S. space agency NASA is marking Saturday 's 20th anniversary of the Challenger space shuttle tragedy , which took the lives of seven astronauts .
Families of the astronauts will take part in a ceremony at the Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral , Florida , where Challenger was launched .
Among those on board was high school teacher Christa McAuliffe .
After a successful liftoff in near freezing temperatures and clear , blue skies , Challenger exploded into a huge fireball 73 seconds into flight as people across the world watched on television .
The cause of the explosion was a poorly designed seal in the shuttle 's solid rocket booster .
Three years ago , the space shuttle Columbiadisintegred while re-entering earth 's atmosphere , killing another seven astronauts and causing the temporary grounding of the shuttle fleet .
Australia says it will end its military 's humanitarian mission in Indonesia 's tsunami-ravaged Aceh province on Friday .
In a statement released Thursday , Australian Defense Minister Robert Hill said the military 's primary mission to restore hospital services , water and other infrastructure has been achieved .
He said the last navy vessel will leave Indonesian waters Friday .
Meanwhile , the United Nations Refugee Agency says it will also cease operations in Aceh by Friday .
The U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees said Thursday it had hoped to complete a $ 60 million relief plan for the province , but that the Indonesian government said its help was no longer needed .
Both groups were part of the huge international effort that followed the December 26 undersea earthquake and tsunami that killed over 2,30,000 people around the Indian Ocean .
British sports officials have projected that the country 's athletes in Beijing will bring home the most medals at an Olympics since 1920 .
UK Sport said Wednesday they believe British athletes should win around 35 medals , including 10-Dec gold .
That would work out to eighth place in the medals standings , two spots higher than their 10th place finish at the Athens Games in 2004 .
The country 's strongest showings are expected in cycling , athletics , sailing and rowing , with 19 medals from those four disciplines .
UK Sport chief executive John Steele says the targets are " ambitious . "
He believes the way Britain performs against the 2008 targets will demonstrate how close it is to reaching the long-term goal of fourth place at the 2012 London Games .
A former Argentine military officer has gone on trial in Madrid , Spain , accused of committing human rights abuses during his country 's so called " dirty war " more than two decades ago .
Adolfo Scilingo is alleged to have dumped drugged dissidents from military helicopters into the ocean .
Mr. Scilingo , who went to Spain in 1997 , had earlier confessed , becoming one of the first officers to openly admit such atrocities occurred during Argentina 's brutal 1976 - 1983 crackdown on leftists .
But he later recanted and recently went on a hunger strike to protest his imprisonment and trial .
Spanish prosecutors are trying the case under a law that allows Spain 's courts to act against suspected human rights violators , even if the alleged crimes were committed in other countries .
The office of the Israeli prime minister says a visit to Israel by the foreign ministers of Egypt and Jordan will take place July 25 , not this week as previously planned .
Ehud Olmert 's office gave no reason for the postponement .
The Egyptian and Jordanian ministers are making the trip on behalf of the 22-nation Arab League to discuss reviving an Arab peace initiative with Mr. Olmert .
The initiative includes offering Israel normal relations with all Arab countries in exchange for an Israeli withdrawal from all lands captured during the 1967 war .
A U.S. aid organization says one of its American workers in Iraq and three other people were killed in an ambush Wednesday in Baghdad .
An official in Washington with the National Democratic Institute , Leslie Campbell , says the American and three security personnel , including an Iraqi , a Croatian and a Hungarian , were killed in the attack .
He said it is not clear who carried out the attack .
The National Democratic Institute is a non-profit organization that is providing training and advice to Iraqi political parties , civil groups and parliamentarians .
Campbell says the group has no immediate plans to end its mission in Iraq , but he says the situation will be re-assessed in light of the attack .
Iraqi officials say a roadside bomb blast in Baghdad has killed at least two security officers .
Authorities say at least two others were wounded in the explosion early Saturday in the eastern section of the capital .
Also in Baghdad , police say a top police officer was unharmed when a roadside bomb exploded near his vehicle , but at least one person was killed and another was wounded .
The U.S. military says a roadside bomb in the city today killed a U.S. soldier .
Police report they found the bound and blindfolded bodies of two unidentified men in Baghdad who had been shot .
In another development , British military officials in southern Iraq said today two Macedonian contract workers were kidnapped Thursday near Basra .
In place of the cult of personality that the Communist Party built around Chairman Mao , the Chinese are embracing a new cult : celebrity .
No Chinese person is more famous now than basketball player and NBA All-Star , Yao Ming , who is headlining China 's Olympic basketball team .
Mandy Clark reports from Beijing .
Egyptian citizens in a number of provinces are voting Sunday in the second round of parliamentary elections .
More than 1,700 candidates are competing in 72 constituencies in the nine second- round provinces .
The first round of voting , centered on Cairo , ended Wednesday amid accusations from monitoring organizations and opposition parties of widespread irregularities .
Officials say the ruling National Democratic Party won 112 of the 454 parliament seats in the first round .
Candidates associated with the banned Muslim Brotherhood won 34 seats , more than doubling its presence .
Meanwhile , leaders of the banned group say police arrested about 200 of its members before polling began today .
Brotherhood Essam el-Erian says the arrests indicate ruling party interference in the election .
The third and final stage of voting is set for December 1 .
Serbia has submitted to the U.N. General Assembly a draft resolution that seeks new dialogue on Kosovo , but does not call for the reopening of status talks on its former province .
Instead , the Serbian Foreign Ministry said Wednesday on its Web site that Belgrade wants the General Assembly to call on both sides to find " mutually acceptable solutions for all outstanding issues through peaceful dialogue . "
The resolution comes less than a week after the world body 's International Court of Justice ruled that Kosovo 's unilateral 2008 declaration of independence was legal under international law .
Immediately after last Thursday 's ruling , Serbian President Boris Tadic said Serbia would keep trying to get Kosovo back using all peaceful and legal means .
The Belgrade government said Monday it expects 55 more countries to join the 69 that have already recognized Kosovo 's independence .
U.S.-led coalition forces clashed Sunday with Taleban militants in the country 's southern Helmand province .
Military officials say at least 10 insurgents were killed when coalition air strikes hit militant positions during an early morning operation in the Garmser district .
Coalition and Afghan forces have been fighting Taleban insurgents since 2001 , when a U.S.-led invasion drove the Islamic group from power .
Militant attacks in southern and eastern Afghanistan have escalated over the past 19 months , marking the bloodiest period since the beginning of the war .
Saddam Hussein 's former deputy prime minister says that U.S. interrogators have questioned him about whether French President Jacques Chirac or other leaders benefited from the former United Nations oil-for-food program in Iraq .
The British Observer newspaper published the letters Sunday in which it says Tariq Aziz also complains of his treatment in U.S. custody .
Mr. Aziz wrote that when he was asked if he had recommended giving " kickbacks " to Mr. Chirac or other international leaders , he said " my answer is no . "
Mr. Aziz also complained that he was being held unjustly - claiming that " we have no meetings or telephone contacts with our families . "
He faces charges that include crimes against Iraq 's Kurdish and Shi'ite communities .
The Observer says the letters in English and Arabic were written on pages from the diary of his lawyer , who was with him while he was being questioned .
U.S. President George Bush Tuesday signed a bill that allows Nelson Mandela to enter the United States without special clearance .
The measure officially removes Mr. Mandela and his African National Congress from a U.S. terror watch list .
The former South African president may now visit the United States without the U.S. secretary of state having to certify that he is not a terrorist .
Mr. Mandela was placed on the list because of his work with the African National Congress ( ANC ) , which fought to end white minority rule in South Africa .
Mr. Mandela spent 27 years in prison for his work with the ANC to fight apartheid rule in South Africa .
The Nobel Peace Prize winner turns 90 on July 18 .
An Israeli aircraft has fired a missile at a target in the Gaza Strip .
Witnesses say an Israeli helicopter gunship fired the missile at a building housing the offices of an Islamic charity .
The Israeli military says the attack targeted an office of a militant group in Gaza city .
There were no reports of casualties .
The attack was the latest in a series of Israeli strikes that began Saturday after Palestinian militants in Gaza fired three rockets into southern Israel .
Earlier , Israel accused the Palestinian Authority of allowing wanted terrorists to cross into Gaza from Egypt in violation of the security agreement brokered by the United States last month .
Palestinian security officials admit some militants have crossed the border , but say Israel 's demand that they be kept out is not part of the agreement .
Egyptians walk by a giant poster of President Hosni Mubarak that says : " We support you , we pledge our allegiance to you " Egyptian police have arrested 25 more members of the outlawed Muslim Brotherhood , including one of the opposition group 's top leaders .
The Brotherhood 's secretary-general , Mahmoud Ezzat , was among those arrested in pre-dawn sweeps Sunday ahead of Wednesday 's national referendum on presidential election rules .
The Muslim Brotherhood and other groups have urged a boycott of the vote .
If approved , the referendum will amend the constitution so Egypt can hold its first multi-candidate presidential election in September .
The Brotherhood opposes the amendment because it sets tough conditions for independent candidates , effectively excluding anyone not endorsed by the ruling party .
Egypt has arrested more than 700 members of the Brotherhood in recent weeks .
The group says today 's arrests are an attempt to silence influential opposition voices .
Former U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell says he advised President Bush to send more troops into Iraq before the U.S.-led invasion was launched .
Powell , in an interview with Britain 's ITV1 , says he gave the advice to now-retired General Tommy Franks , who planned the Iraq invasion , Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld and Mr. Bush .
Powell says Mr. Bush 's military advisors believed the troop level was adequate .
Powell says he still disagrees with this and would have preferred to initially send more troops .
Rumsfeld has been under mounting criticism over the war in Iraq .
Six retired U.S. generals recently called for Rumsfeld 's resignation , faulting his leadership and accusing him of making a series of major errors in the Iraq war .
Workers in Kurdish northern Iraq digging the foundation for a new hospital have discovered a mass grave that a regional official says may contain scores of bodies .
Speaking Wednesday in the town of Suleimaniyah , regional human rights minister Salah Rashid said the bodies are likely those of Kurds killed by Saddam Hussein 's army following the end of the 1991 Gulf War .
The Associated Press quotes a 60-year-old local man as saying hundreds of Kurds are buried at the site , including his brother .
U.S. and Iraqi officials say more than 250 mass graves have been unearthed across Iraq since Saddam 's ouster in 2003 .
The former dictator remains in U.S. custody , and is expected to go on trial next year on charges of genocide and crimes against humanity .
American troops and warplanes repelled an insurgent attack Wednesday in the northern Iraqi city of Mosul , killing at least 25 attackers .
The U.S. military said 15 of its troops were injured and one died in fighting after rebels detonated a car bomb outside a U.S. outpost and opened fire on arriving soldiers .
Violence in Mosul has intensified following a November offensive against insurgents in Fallujah , as some militants fled to the northern city .
Thursday , the interim government announced the arrest of a Kurdish man accused of facilitating communications between al-Qaida and Abu Musab al-Zarqawi 's terrorist network .
A similar arrest was announced Wednesday .
And the insurgent group that claimed responsibility for last week 's attack on a U.S. base in Mosul that killed 22 people has renewed its threat to kill anyone who takes part in next month 's election .
A U.S. soldier at the center of the Abu Ghraib prison abuse scandal in Iraq is to plead guilty Monday to reduced charges .
Her attorney says Army Reservist Lynndie England will plead guilty to conspiracy , maltreating prisoners and dereliction of duty .
Two charges are to be dropped .
England was seen in widely publicized photographs holding a leash attached to a naked detainee at Abu Ghraib and , in another photo , smiling and pointing at a prisoner 's genitals .
The judge must still accept the plea agreement that could bring a maximum prison term of 11 years , instead of 16 .
The New York Times , citing prosecution sources , says England is expected to receive a term of 30 months .
England 's ex-boyfriend , described as the ringleader of the abuse , has already been sentenced to 10 years in prison .
Japan 's Nissan Motor Company and France 's Renault say they are willing to begin talks with General Motors on a possible alliance with the American company .
The boards of directors of Nissan and Renault approved the talks on Monday .
Last week , GM 's most high-profile investor , billionaire Kirk Kerkorian , urged the company to consider joining forces with Nissan and Renault .
News reports say Nissan and Renault may each acquire 10 percent of GM 's stock .
General Motors is the world 's largest automobile manufacturer , but it is plagued with declining sales , high manufacturing costs , and steep losses .
GM is shedding factories and workers in an effort to restore profitability .
Nissan overcame serious problems and became profitable again under the leadership of Carlos Ghosn .
Some analysts say he could speed GM toward efficiency and profit .
Pakistani police in southwestern Baluchistan province have arrested at least 11 people in connection with a deadly bomb blast on a passenger bus late Sunday .
The provincial police chief , Chaudhry Mohammed Yaqoob , says the suspects are all ethnic Baluch tribesmen and were arrested overnight in a series of raids in Quetta , the capital of Baluchistan province .
Local authorities say they have also taken the driver of the bus into custody for questioning .
Thirteen people were killed and 20 wounded when the bomb ripped through the bus carrying about 50 people from Quetta to the eastern city of Lahore .
No one claimed responsibility for the bomb .
But the police chief blamed Baluch tribal militants who have stepped up their insurgency seeking greater autonomy and more compensation for the region 's gas and other natural resources .
Bolivia 's education minister Felix Patzi is calling on the contry 's school teachers to end their nationwide strike and return to work .
The teachers began their two-day strike on Tuesday , along with Bolivia 's transporation workers .
Patzi is the reason for the teachers ' work stoppage .
They oppose his plan to revise the nation 's school curriculum , and they are calling for his resignation .
Bolivian drivers walked off their jobs over fines for traffic violations and the high price of diesel fuel .
Reports say confrontations between striking and working drivers got violent in some places , with activists stopping cars and damaging them .
Ethiopia 's prime minister and opposition leaders have met to discuss for the first time together disputed parliamentary elections in May .
Friday 's talks between Prime Minister Meles Zenawi and the two main opposition groups were set up to ease tensions sparked by the elections .
Shortly after the vote , security forces opened fire on anti-government protesters , killing at least 36 people .
A top official in one opposition party says the talks included the possibility of establishing a coalition government and opposition access to state-run media .
The discussions are expected to continue .
The latest election results show Mr. Zenawi 's ruling party and its allies have won 263 seats , 11 short of the majority needed to form a new government .
Opposition groups have won 170 seats .
Opposition leaders have rejected the results and called for new elections in 299 constituencies .
Indonesia sent a dozen bird flu samples to a World Health Organization laboratory this week , the first time it has done so it more than a year .
Health Ministry officials say they shipped the samples to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the southeastern U.S. city of Atlanta , Georgia .
Indonesia stopped sending its virus samples to WHO because it wanted assurances that poor and developing nations would be allowed access to affordable vaccines developed from their samples .
The government has been in talks with WHO to create a new virus-sharing system .
Health Ministry officials say the samples sent to the CDC laboratory are for diagnostic purposes only .
Indonesia is the most affected nation from the outbreak of the lethal H5N1 form of bird flu with 105 deaths .
Eritrea has rejected a suggestion that fresh talks be held to resolve its border dispute with Ethiopia .
In a statement issued late Monday , the Eritrean Foreign Ministry said the dispute was legally concluded when an independent commission issued a ruling on the border in 2002 .
It said any new talks or initiatives on the subject would be " utterly irrelevant . "
Last week , parties that witnessed the peace agreement Eritrea and Ethiopia signed in 2000 said the border commission should hold a meeting with the two countries and work out technical details on marking the border .
The physical demarcation has been delayed because of Ethiopia 's refusal to accept the commission 's ruling .
A frustrated Eritrea imposed travel restrictions on U.N. peacekeepers watching the border last year , and expelled Western members of the U.N. staff .
The U.N. mission says the military situation along the border remains tense .
Turkish health officials say three more people have tested positive for the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu .
Officials said Sunday the three cases were discovered in the capital of Ankara .
They are the first human cases outside the far eastern Van province , where the disease killed a teenage brother and sister last week .
A World Health Organization team is in Turkey to assess the government 's response to the disease .
The WHO says all evidence so far shows the virus has come from sick birds and not through human contact .
The H5N1 virus has killed more than 70 people in Southeast Asia and China since 2003 .
The WHO is assuring people they can not catch bird flu from eating properly cooked poultry and eggs .
WHO spokesman Ian Simpson tells VOA that thorough cooking will kill the virus .
He also advises people to carefully clean food preparation areas .
A two-day meeting of the African Union in Addis Ababa is focusing on how to disarm Rwandan rebels in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of Congo .
There are up to 14 thousand ethnically Hutu rebels in the region , who stage attacks against Rwanda ’s government and destabilize local communities in the DRC .
The rebels , called Interahamwe , are blamed for the 1994 genocide in Rwanda against minority Tutsi and moderate Hutu .
The presidents of the DRC and Rwanda have agreed to allow the African Union to coordinate a solution using AU troops .
Desmond Orjiako is the spokesman for the Africa Union in Addis .
He told English to Africa reporter William Eagle that the AU is considering a number of possibilities – including sending in troops to work alongside UN peacekeepers or the Congolese military , or going in alone
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said Iran will not hold any further talks with world powers on its controversial nuclear program .
Mr. Ahmadinejad told a news conference in Tehran Monday Iran will only agree to discussions with major powers about cooperating in managing global problems .
He said Iran will not participate in talks about nuclear issues outside the framework of the U.N. nuclear agency .
Six world powers have offered Iran a package of incentives to suspend uranium enrichment .
Western nations fear Iran will use the enrichment process to develop nuclear weapons .
Tehran says its nuclear program is peaceful .
President Ahmadinejad said that if he is re-elected next month , he is ready to debate U.S. President Barack Obama at the United Nations in New York .
Mr. Obama has said he wants a dialogue with Iran to persuade it that developing nuclear weapons is not in the Iranian interest .
An international press freedom group has asked U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to pressure Iran into halting the executions of two Iranian journalists .
Reporters Without Borders said in a news release Tuesday that it wrote to Mr. Ban urging him to try and help the Kurdish journalists , Adnan Hassanpour and Abdolvahed " Hiva " Botimar , who both wrote for the magazine Asou before it was banned in 2005 .
The two were sentenced to death in July on charges of being " enemies of God . "
The European Union , which opposes the death penalty in all cases , has called on Iran not to carry out the death sentences .
The EU said it is particularly troubled by the repression of Iranians who try to freely express opinions , especially those in minority Arab and Kurd regions .
Chinese activists say the government has paid compensation to the mother of a 15-year-old boy who died in police custody days after the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests .
They say the Chinese government paid the mother of Zhou Guocong more than $ 8,700 ( 70,000 yuan ) in so-called hardship assistance .
Activists say the payment is the first known time China has paid compensation to a relative of someone killed during the crackdown on the democracy movement .
Activists say Zhou was detained by police in the southern city of Chengdu as part of a nationwide crackdown on democracy protests .
The 1989 student-led pro-democracy demonstrations in Tiananmen Square were crushed by the Chinese military .
Other protests were held across China .
A rocket was fired on the Afghan capital of Kabul Saturday as more than 600 delegates from Pakistan and Afghanistan held a third day of talks aimed at improving security and strengthening bilateral relations .
Interior Ministry officials say the rocket landed in an open area , several kilometers from a high security zone where the meeting was being held .
No damage or casualties have been reported .
The four-day peace conference , or grand jirga , focuses on specific issues dividing the two countries .
Many Afghans expressed hope that the conference will help reduce violence in both countries .
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf is expected to attend the closing session on Sunday .
A second conference is planned for Pakistan at a later date .
The international organization Doctors Without Borders is reporting that more than 900 people have died from cholera in Angola in just 10 weeks .
The Angola country director for the group , Richard Veerman , said the outbreak is one of the worst ever in the southern African country , and has not yet reached its peak .
In a statement released Thursday , the group said measures to halt the outbreak are grossly inefficient , and called on the Angolan government and international relief organizations to step up their efforts to halt the epidemic .
Doctors Without Borders says that on some days this week its doctors have seen almost 1,000 cases of cholera , and more than 30 deaths .
The organization has 10 treatment centers in Angola , and reports seeing 11,700 cases of the disease since February .
Six countries along the Mekong river have agreed to a three-year plan to fight human trafficking .
Authorities from Cambodia , China , Laos , Burma , Thailand and Vietnam made the pledge Thursday at the conclusion of a three-day conference in Hanoi .
In a statement , the officials said they will work across borders to detect trafficking rings , recover victims and return them home , and prosecute offenders .
No estimates exist on how many people are trafficked each year in the Mekong region , but the United Nations Children 's Fund believes some 2,00,000 people have been trafficked across the entire Asia-Pacific region .
Most victims are children and women .
Iraqi police say gunmen have attacked a convoy belonging to Iraqi President Jalal Talabani , killing at least six of his bodyguards and wounding as many as 15 others .
Early reports say the president was not in the convoy when the attack occurred about 90 kilometers south of Kirkuk .
The Associated Press quotes police as saying the security detail was returning cars from Iraq 's Kurdish north to Baghdad when gunmen opened fire .
In other developments , Iraqi police say they have found the bodies of 36 men dumped in a river southeast of Baghdad .
Details are sketchy , but initial reports say the men were found in their underwear , each with a single bullet wound to the head .
The identities of the men and the motive behind the killings remain unclear .
A crowd in Bangladesh has beaten eight pirates to death after they boarded a river boat and tried to rob passengers .
Authorities say at least a dozen pirates boarded the ferry on the Jamuna river , northwest of the capital , Dhaka .
But police on the ferry challenged the bandits , and passengers chased them when they jumped overboard to flee .
Several pirates escaped , but the others were caught and beaten .
Eight died from their injuries .
American speedskater Chris Witty has dropped out of the women 's 1,500-meter race to end her Olympic career after two disappointing performances at the Turin Winter Olympics .
Witty was a three-time medalist competing in her fourth Winter Games .
But she placed last of the 28 skaters who finished the 500-meter event .
Witty was 27th in Sunday 's 1,000-meter race .
Witty 's training was hampered by a groin injury she sustained in December at a World Cup meet in Turin .
She also was having problems with her hip .
The 30-year-old Witty carried the American flag at the Turin opening ceremonies .
Her 1,000-meter world record ( 0.051655093 ) set while winning gold in the 1,000-meter race at the 2002 Salt Lake City Games still stands .
She also won silver and bronze medals at the 1998 Nagano Games .
Rights groups have criticized Egypt for allegedly continuing to detain up to 2,400 people in the investigation into last October 's Taba Hilton hotel bombing .
U.S.-based Human Right Watch says that some of the detainees have been tortured and all have been held some 16 weeks without communication with lawyers or their families .
During a news conference with local rights groups in Cairo Tuesday , Human Rights Watch said Egyptian officials have not confirmed the mass detentions in northern Sinai , but they have defended such tactics by citing methods used against terrorism suspects by the United States and Israel .
The attacks last October on the Taba Hilton and two other resorts in the Sinai killed 35 people and wounded more than 100 , mostly Egyptian and Israeli tourists .
The top U.N. envoy to Sudan , Jan Pronk , says he is horrified by ongoing violence in Darfur and called on the government to stop the killing .
In Khartoum Wednesday , Mr. Pronk said he saw evidence of widespread atrocities during his tour of Darfur last week .
He specifically mentioned Labado , a village in South Darfur , the scene of recent fighting between rebels and government forces .
Mr. Pronk said he was " horrified " by what he had seen there - burned villages and destroyed water wells - and described a pattern of attacks on civilians by unidentified militias .
Mr. Pronk 's comments came two days after a a special U.N. report concluded that while no genocide had taken place in Darfur , Sudanese government forces and allied Arab militias had committed widespread killings , rapes , and other atrocities that warranted prosecution by the International Criminal Court .
U.S. and Iraqi forces Monday battled insurgents for a third day near the Syrian border , in a push U.S. commanders say is aimed at cutting off the flow of weapons and fighters into Iraq 's population centers .
U.S. authorities say one Marine has been killed in the fighting at Husaybah .
A CNN reporter with the coalition force quotes a Marine commander as saying between 60 and 80 insurgents have been killed .
Another Marine told the network about 180 military-age males have been detained for questioning .
A U.S. statement says the coalition force is clearing the town of 30,000 people house-by-house , and says insurgents have planted homemade bombs throughout the area .
Elsewhere , at least nine people , including six Iraqi police officers , have been killed in a suicide bombing in south Baghdad .
Separately , at least four people were killed and six others wounded when a mortar shell exploded in east Baghdad .
International donors have pledged an additional $ 580 million in assistance for earthquake relief efforts in Pakistan .
Top United Nations relief official Jan Egeland said the pledges came at a donor meeting in Geneva .
But officials said it was not clear how much money was intended for emergency relief aid , and how much was for long-term reconstruction efforts .
Earlier , U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan appealed for help to prevent a second wave of deaths .
Officials have warned that thousands of people may die if they do not receive aid before key supply routes are blocked by winter snow and freezing temperatures .
The United States has pledged $ 156 million for humanitarian aid , reconstruction and relief operations by American military personnel .
The death toll in Pakistan now stands at more than 54,000 people , and officials say rebuilding damaged areas will cost $ 5 billion .
Officials in Georgia 's breakaway republic of Abkhazia have delayed announcing the results from Sunday 's presidential election .
Central Election Commission chief Sergei Smyr said Monday that a slowdown in the delivery of ballots from some districts would hold up a scheduled announcement of the official results .
Mr. Smyr said results posted Sunday on a web site that purported to be the commission 's official site were fraudulent .
Before the vote , Prime Minister Raul Khadjimba was considered the leading contender among five candidates .
Abkhaz power company chief Sergei Bagapsh was thought to be his most serious opponent .
Mr. Smyr said Mr. Bagapsh and another candidate have alleged voting irregularities that may have to be investigated .
Abkhazia declared itself independent of Georgia in 1993 and has since been led by President Vladislav Ardzinba .
Authorities in Tbilisi say the election lacks legitimacy .
Dozens of armed militants briefly took control of Palestinian government buildings in the Gaza Strip Saturday to demand jobs .
Witnesses and security sources say members of the Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade , an armed wing of the Fatah movement , occupied several offices in central Gaza .
Separately , gunmen protesting the death of a police officer set up a roadblock at Gaza 's border crossing with Egypt , threatening to prevent officials from passing .
The police officer had been recently killed in a family feud .
Late Friday , gunmen in Gaza released three British hostages who had been seized earlier in the week in Rafah .
A previously unknown group , Mujahadeen Brigades Jerusalem Branch , claimed responsibility for the kidnapping .
Also Friday , Palestinian police briefly occupied the Gaza-Egypt border crossing at Rafah to protest the killing of the officer , forcing the crossing to temporarily close .
Authorities in the northwestern Indian state of Rajasthan say at least 86 people were killed late Friday when a truck packed with pilgrims veered off a mountainous road and plunged into a gorge .
The authorities say at least 60 others were injured when the driver lost control of the vehicle on a curve in a remote part of the rural state .
Officials say the truck , usually used for hauling large containers , was carrying more than 149 pilgrims to a temple fair at the time of the crash .
Local police are investigating the incident .
The state government says it will pay the families of the dead about $ 1,200 each in compensation .
Fatal road accidents are common in India , due mainly to poorly maintained roads and vehicles , and disregard for traffic rules .
President Bush has stepped up pressure on members of his own party in Congress to pass an intelligence reform bill before it adjourns for the year .
In his weekly radio address Saturday , Mr. Bush called on lawmakers to create a national intelligence director with full budget authority over the nation 's intelligence agencies .
The opposition has come from key leaders within the president 's own Republican party , who object to portions of the bill that would overhaul 15 spy agencies .
Those objections focus on preserving the military chain of command and the flow of intelligence to troops in the field .
Analysts say the bill would likely pass in its current form with support from Democrats if a vote were held .
Embracing many of the recommendations from the independent commission investigating the September 11 attacks , the president said the legislation presents a clear and sensible path towards needed intelligence reforms .
Al-Qaida has claimed responsibility for attacks earlier this month on security and intelligence buildings in Yemen 's south that left at least three people dead .
The militant group 's regional wing , known as Al Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula , said in an Internet statement Friday the attacks were in retaliation for the killing of at least one militant fighter in Yemen 's southern Abyan province .
On July 14 , gunmen on motorcycles using mortars and rocket-propelled grenades opened fire on people inside the two buildings in the provincial capital , Zinjibar .
After the assault and subsequent clashes with police and guards , the attackers fled .
Al-Qaida was also blamed for an attack last month on security headquarters in southern Yemen that left 11 people dead .
Democratic Republic of Congo troops who are apparently upset over a pay dispute fired on a United Nations base in the country 's eastern region .
U.N. officials say 27 soldiers have been arrested for allegedly firing on a U.N. peacekeepers ' base in North Kivu province .
No casualties were reported .
United Nations officials say the Congolese troops are upset because they have not been paid for several months .
A top Syrian official says Israel is responsible for a car bomb blast in Damascus Monday that wounded three people .
Interior Minister Ghazi Kanaan said Israeli intelligence or a group affiliated with it had targeted the vehicle of a Palestinian member of the radical group Hamas .
The minister said the man and a family member were unharmed because they got out of the vehicle just before the blast .
Syrian officials called the attack Monday afternoon an " act of sabotage . "
Police quickly removed the damaged vehicle from the scene In September , a senior Hamas member was killed in when a bomb blew up his car , also in Damascus .
Syria blamed Israel for that attack .
Pakistan 's main government coalition partner says it will split from the country 's ruling party alliance and join the opposition .
A spokesman for the Muttahida Qaumi Movement , or MQM , announced Sunday that it would sit with the opposition in both the National Assembly and the Senate .
The move follows last week 's resignation by two of the party 's federal cabinet ministers .
The MQM previously has been at odds with the government over tax reforms , increased fuel prices and efforts to improve security .
It is not clear if the move will collapse the U.S.-allied government , which previously held a small majority in parliament .
Pakistan 's Prime Minister Yusuf Raza Gilani says his government will not fall , despite the planned MQM move .
Saudi Arabia says it will send a delegation to Iraq next week to look into reopening its embassy , more than four years after the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq .
Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal said Tuesday the delegation will explore security concerns related to opening the diplomatic post .
He first announced the plan last week during a visit by U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice .
Rice welcomed the move as an important step .
Iraq re-opened its embassy in Saudi Arabia last February .
Saudi Arabia is a Sunni Muslim country and Iraq has a Shi'ite majority population and a Shi'ite prime minister .
A pro-reformist Web site says Iran has barred former President Mohammad Khatami from leaving the country .
The Web site Parlemannews says Mr. Khatami was scheduled to depart Thursday night to attend a nuclear disarmament conference in Japan .
There was no immediate reaction from the Iranian government .
Mr. Khatami was a key supporter of defeated presidential candidate Mir Hossein Mousavi in June elections .
Opposition leaders claim that President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad stole the vote .
The Iranian government has carried out violent crackdowns on anti-government protests staged since the presidential election .
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton says the Obama administration has decided to engage directly with Burma 's military government , in an effort to push its military leaders toward democratic reform .
Clinton told reporters at the United Nations Wednesday that the U.S. government still will use sanctions against Burma to try to influence its government .
However , she said sanctions by themselves have not produced the results the United States has wanted .
She said engagement versus sanctions is a FALSE choice , and that the Obama administration has decided to use both methods .
Burma has been under military rule since 1962 .
The opposition National League for Democracy won the last elections in 1990 , but the military government refused to acknowledge the results .
Burma 's opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi has been in some form of detention for 14 of the past 20 years .
The Summer Olympic Games could prove the winning ticket for foreign brands seeking access to China 's lucrative consumer market .
Corporate sponsorship of the Beijing Games is booming , as companies seek visibility before 1.3 billion Chinese and the world at large .
Sam Beattie reports for VOA .
Authorities in Azerbaijan have inaugurated a NATO-funded project for reprocessing surplus rocket fuel dating back to Soviet times .
The project is being launched in Alyaty .
It involves the conversion of about 1,500 metric tons of fuel known as melange into fertilizer .
Warsaw Pact forces formerly used the fuel .
It is considered hazardous to the environment .
The $ 2-million program will deal with fuel stored at two locations in Azerbaijan
U.S. Republicans and Democrats in 16 states have picked the economy as the most important issue facing the country .
A survey of " Super Tuesday " voters conducted by Edison Media Research and Mitofsky International for the Associated Press and television networks shows Democrats ranked the war in Iraq second on their list of issues of concern , with health care third .
The survey shows Republican voters ranked immigration as the second-most important issue after the economy , followed by the war in Iraq .
In southern U.S. states in particular , issues such as the war in Iraq , taxes and religion were expected to weigh heavily with voters Tuesday .
Voters in western states were expected to focus on national issues such as the economy , as well as specific issues , such as the environment and energy .
A fifth Venezuelan opposition party has pulled out of Sunday 's congressional elections , saying it is concerned the balloting will not be fair .
The New Era party has joined the opposition boycott , just days after the Democratic Action , Project Venezuela , Copei , and Justice First parties announced their withdrawal .
Opposition parties say they are boycotting the vote because the electoral council is biased .
They also say the electronic voting machines do not guarantee confidentiality .
The government said Friday the vote will go forward on Sunday as planned with the Organization of American States and the European Union observing the electoral process .
The government statement also said the National Electoral Council has agreed to a set of 11 changes in response to opposition concerns .
Meanwhile , U.S. State Department spokesman Sean McCormack has again denied any U.S. involvement in the withdrawals .
Backers of a controversial referendum in Kazakhstan to extend President Nursultan Nazarbayev 's rule until the year 2020 say a majority of voters support the idea .
If the proposal is approved in a referendum , next year 's planned presidential election will not take place .
Supporters of the proposal say they collected more than five million signatures from Kazakh voters who say they want Mr. Nazarbayev to extend his rule into third decade .
There are about nine million registered voters in Kazakhstan .
Mr. Nazarbayev , who has been the country 's leader since 1989 , rejected the referendum plan earlier this month , saying he planned to contest the 2012 election .
He is not expected to face any serious challengers .
The U.S. Embassy in Astana issued a statement welcoming the president 's decision to reject the referendum and urged others to avoid steps that would violate Kazakhstan 's constitution .
A Chinese Health Ministry official has warned that tens of millions of people could be infected with H1N1 influenza in China in the coming months , and that fatalities would be " unavoidable " .
The deputy director of the ministry 's health emergency office , Liang Wannian , made the comments to reporters Friday .
So far , the world 's most populous nation has reported nearly 7,000 cases of the disease and no deaths .
More than half of China 's reported cases have been detected since late last month .
Of those cases , nearly 95 percent originated in China , whereas the vast majority of cases reported from June to August originated overseas .
China says it will soon launch a nationwide vaccination program to prevent mass outbreaks of the virus .
China has suspended a dam project in the southwestern province of Sichuan and fired a local Communist Party official after large-scale demonstrations .
At least one person was killed last month when tens of thousands of farmers in Hanyuan county protested construction of a hydroelectric dam that will flood 1,00,000 people out of their homes .
The protesters were dissatisfied with the compensation offered for residents ' relocation .
The local Communist Party said today that county party secretary Tan Zhengyu had been removed from his post earlier this month and replaced by a former deputy .
The central government also has sent a team to deal with the concerns of local residents .
However , scores of riot police remain in the region .
A U.S. military officer has been charged with stealing nearly $ 7,00,000 of funds intended for humanitarian relief in Iraq and Afghanistan .
Captain Michael Dung Nguyen is accused of stealing the money while on duty in Iraq , from April 2007 until last month .
Nguyen was arrested after the U.S. Internal Revenue Service tracked large deposits made by Nguyen in U.S. banks .
The army captain is charged with theft of government property , money laundering and illegally structuring financial transactions .
A British-based mine clearing agency says two of its Afghan employees have been killed and six others wounded when a remote-controlled bomb tore through their vehicle in southern Afghanistan .
Halo Trust regional director , Mohammad Ashraf , said Sunday 's blast occurred in the volatile southern Kandahar province , and that the wounded were rushed to nearby hospitals .
Also Sunday , in the same province , three Afghan soldiers were wounded in a similar roadside attack .
Witnesses say several civilians were also injured in the explosion .
No one has claimed responsibility for the blasts .
But similar acts have been blamed on Taleban insurgents who have carried out a series of suicide attacks and ambushes against U.S.-led coalition forces , Afghan troops and aid and government workers .
As the price of gasoline continues to rise in the U.S. , more Americans are buying smaller , more fuel-efficient vehicles .
Others are holding on to their big cars , in hopes that gas prices will eventually go down .
VOA 's Deborah Block has a report .
Human skulls and clothes found at a mass grave near Samawa Investigators have uncovered a mass grave in southern Iraq containing as many as 1,500 bodies .
Forensic experts say most of those buried at the site near the town of Samawa , about 300 kilometers south of Baghdad , are believed to be Kurds .
They say the victims , many of them women and children , were apparently lined up in front of the 18 trenches and shot with AK-47 assault rifles .
Officials say the victims were most likely killed during the Anfal campaign of the late 1980s - a drive by Saddam Hussein 's regime to exterminate the Kurdish community of southern Kurdistan .
According to international human rights groups , as many as 1,82,000 Kurdish civilians disappeared during 1988 alone .
The housing crisis , the credit crunch and high gas prices may be hurting consumer confidence in the United States but the impact is not necessarily the same for everyone .
Some see a silver lining in a weak U.S. economy .
During tough economic times , some businesses specialize in turning losses into profits .
VOA 's Mil Arcega reports .
Tension is high in Lebanon as government supporters plan a mass rally in Beirut Wednesday to mark the second anniversary of the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
The rally is set to take place in central Beirut , near where anti-government protesters led by the Shi'ite militant group Hezbollah have been camped out since December .
Hezbollah has been trying to bring down the pro-Western government of Prime Minister Fuad Siniora .
Tuesday , bomb blasts on two commuter buses northeast of Beirut killed three people and wounded 20 others .
Anti-Syrian lawmakers in Lebanon 's parliament blamed the blasts on Syria and called for increased security along the Syrian border .
Syria is also widely blamed for the February 14 , 2005 slaying of Rafik Hariri -- a charge Damascus denies .
Pro-government parties want Syria to stay out of Lebanese affairs and support an international investigation into the Hariri assassination .
A world Buddhist summit of more than 1,000 monks from around the globe has ended in Burma .
The summit , which opened in the military-ruled southeast Asian nation on Thursday , attracted controversy because of the junta 's reported persecution of some monks and its detention of opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi .
Burma alone sponsored the event after its main sponsor , Japan 's Nenbutsushu sect , boycotted the three-day meeting amid concerns over Burma 's human rights record .
However , the military government praised organizers of the conference and said it had contributed to world peace .
The meeting included appearances by the prime ministers of Thailand , Sri Lanka and Laos , as well as a rare appearance by the head of Burma 's government , General Than Shwe .
Crude oil prices rose to fresh record highs Friday as traders speculated that reduced output from Nigeria will hamper efforts to produce fuel for the peak summer driving months in the United States .
The price of crude oil for future delivery was up more than two dollars , going as high as $ 126.2 a barrel .
The price of crude oil has doubled in the past year , and is up more than seven percent just this week .
Members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries have said there is no need to increase oil output .
They say high oil prices are due to the U.S. dollar 's decline in value , compared to other currencies , and surging investments in commodities .
Two more tropical depressions , one in the Atlantic Ocean and one in the Caribbean , have forecasters waiting to see if this year 's hurricane season will get its 18th named storm .
Early Saturday , a slow-moving depression was reported to be about 1,000 kilometers west-southwest of the Cape Verde Islands .
Its top winds were near 55 kilometers per hour , with some higher gusts .
At the moment , forecasters do not expect it to pose a threat to land .
The other storm was reported 175 kilometers southeast of Cozumel , Mexico , moving toward the west-northwest .
Mexico 's government has issued a tropical storm warning for the Yucatan Peninsula , with landfall expected by Sunday .
Already this is the fourth-busiest Atlantic hurricane season since forecasters began keeping records in 1851 .
Indonesian police say Islamic militants in the country are running short of funds and are selling pre-paid phone cards to raise cash for operations .
National police chief General Sutanto says sources in Saudi Arabia had been getting money to the militants using a courier network , but that was broken up last year .
With money running out , police say the militants are earning as much as $ 500 a day selling phone cards .
Police have said that the fact that the most recent terrorist attacks in Indonesia used small bombs carried in backpacks instead of larger car bombs was a sign the attackers were low on funds .
Tribal clashes in drought-stricken central Kenya have killed at least 30 people .
Local authorities say cattle rustlers from the Pokot tribe attacked the Samburu tribe late Monday .
The attackers killed at least 21 Samburu and made off with hundreds of cows .
A local member of parliament , Raphael Letimalo , said some of those killed were children .
Police killed nine of the raiders in a shootout , and are combing the area for the other suspected raiders and the stolen livestock .
Much of Kenya is suffering from a severe drought that has hurt farm production , killed livestock and led to shortages of food and water .
The U.N. World Food Program recently said that about 3.8 million Kenyans will not have enough food over the next months because of the drought .
Kenya 's government blames the food crisis on four straight years of lower-than-normal rainfall .
Iran has rejected U.S. and European economic incentives offered in exchange for abandoning its nuclear enrichment activities , saying it will not bend to external pressure .
The Iranian response comes a day after Washington said it would drop its objections to Iran 's application to the World Trade Organization , WTO , and to the licensing of spare parts for Iranian civilian aircraft .
A foreign ministry spokesman dismissed the offer Saturday saying restrictions against Tehran 's right to buy spare parts and join the WTO should never have been imposed in the first place .
In a major policy shift , the Bush administration agreed to back European incentives , after Britain , France and Germany said they would support U.S. efforts to bring Iran before the U.N. Security Council if nuclear talks fail .
The tiny Pacific island nation of Kiribati has designated an oceanic wilderness as the world 's largest protected marine reserve .
The Phoenix Islands Protected Area lies about halfway between Fiji and the U.S. island state of Hawaii , covering more than 4,10,000 square kilometers .
It is one of the Earth 's last intact coral archipelagoes , and boasts a vast biological diversity .
Research conducted by Kiribati and the U.S.-based New England Aquarium has discovered more than 120 species of coral and 520 species of fish , some of them new to science .
The area also supports a large population of birds and sea turtles and contains several undersea reefs .
Kiribati established the reserve to protect it from overfishing .
Parts of the archipelago are already suffering from the effects of warming seas due to climate change .
Iraqi police say at least eight policemen were killed in separate insurgent attacks in Baghdad and the northern city of Kirkuk Tuesday .
In Kirkuk , insurgents ambushed a police patrol , killing four officers .
Hours afterwards , two more policemen died in a roadside bomb blast on the outskirts of the city .
In Baghdad , at least two policemen were killed and several people were wounded when a car bomb exploded outside a restaurant popular with police officers .
Meanwhile , U.S. and Iraqi forces are continuing an operation against insurgents in western Iraq , despite calls from the country 's Sunni Arab leaders to halt such operations .
Sunni leaders say halting such attacks in mostly Sunni areas will encourage Sunnis to participate in next month 's parliamentary elections .
Physically challenged Kenyans face serious discrimination in their professional and personal lives .
But some Kenyans with disabilities have risen above seemingly insurmountable odds to pursue their dreams .
VOA 's Cathy Majtenyi caught up with a member of Uwezo Mix Dance Theatre and a young man studying graphic art and she filed this report .
The White House says North Korean officials have given no indication that Pyongyang is considering returning to the six-nation talks on halting its nuclear weapons program .
State Department officials met with North Korean diplomats in New York Monday .
A spokesman for President Bush said Tuesday that the diplomats said they were committed to the six-party talks , but gave no indication that Pyongyang is ready to return to the negotiations .
The spokesman , Scott McClellan , said the White House remains hopeful that North Korea will return to the talks soon , without preconditions .
The New York meeting was the second such direct meeting between U.S. and North Korean officials in less than a month .
Egypt attempted to colonize the region of southern Sudan by establishing the province of Equatoria in the 1870s .
Islamic Mahdist revolutionaries overran the region in 1885 , but in 1898 a British force was able to overthrow the Mahdist regime .
An Anglo-Egyptian Sudan was established the following year with Equatoria being the southernmost of its eight provinces .
The isolated region was largely left to itself over the following decades , but Christian missionaries converted much of the population and facilitated the spread of English .
When Sudan gained its independence in 1956 , it was with the understanding that the southerners would be able to participate fully in the political system .
When the Arab Khartoum government reneged on its promises , a mutiny began that led to two prolonged periods of conflict ( 1955 - 1972 and 1983 - 2005 ) in which perhaps 2.5 million people died - mostly civilians - due to starvation and drought .
Ongoing peace talks finally resulted in a Comprehensive Peace Agreement , signed in January 2005 .
As part of this agreement the south was granted a six-year period of autonomy to be followed by a referendum on final status .
The result of this referendum , held in January 2011 , was a vote of 98 % in favor of secession .
Independence was attained on 9 July 2011 .
Tourism is the primary economic activity , accounting for 80 % of GDP and employment .
The islands hosted 2.4 million visitors in 2008 .
The manufacturing sector consists of petroleum refining , rum distilling , textiles , electronics , pharmaceuticals , and watch assembly .
One of the world 's largest petroleum refineries is at Saint Croix .
The agricultural sector is small , with most food being imported .
International business and financial services are small but growing components of the economy .
The islands are vulnerable to substantial damage from storms .
The government is working to improve fiscal discipline , to support construction projects in the private sector , to expand tourist facilities , to reduce crime , and to protect the environment .
By terms of the 1960 Treaty of Establishment that created the independent Republic of Cyprus , the UK retained full sovereignty and jurisdiction over two areas of almost 254 square kilometers - Akrotiri and Dhekelia .
The larger of these is the Dhekelia Sovereign Base Area , which is also referred to as the Eastern Sovereign Base Area .
Lithuanian lands were united under MINDAUGAS in 1236 ; over the next century , through alliances and conquest , Lithuania extended its territory to include most of present-day Belarus and Ukraine .
By the end of the 14th century Lithuania was the largest state in Europe .
An alliance with Poland in 1386 led the two countries into a union through the person of a common ruler .
In 1569 , Lithuania and Poland formally united into a single dual state , the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth .
This entity survived until 1795 when its remnants were partitioned by surrounding countries .
Lithuania regained its independence following World War I but was annexed by the USSR in 1940 - an action never recognized by the US and many other countries .
On 11 March 1990 , Lithuania became the first of the Soviet republics to declare its independence , but Moscow did not recognize this proclamation until September of 1991 ( following the abortive coup in Moscow ) .
The last Russian troops withdrew in 1993 .
Lithuania subsequently restructured its economy for integration into Western European institutions ; it joined both NATO and the EU in the spring of 2004 .
Success of the economy hinges upon seasonal variations in agriculture , tourism , and construction activity as well as remittance inflows .
Much of the workforce is employed in banana production and tourism , but persistent high unemployment has prompted many to leave the islands .
This lower-middle-income country is vulnerable to natural disasters - tropical storms wiped out substantial portions of crops in 1994 , 1995 , and 2002 .
In 2008 , the islands had more than 2,00,000 tourist arrivals , mostly to the Grenadines , a drop of nearly 20 % from 2007 .
Saint Vincent is home to a small offshore banking sector and has moved to adopt international regulatory standards .
The government 's ability to invest in social programs and respond to external shocks is constrained by its high public debt burden , which was over 90 % of GDP at the end of 2010 .
Following the global downturn , St. Vincent and the Grenadines saw an economic decline in 2009 , after slowing since 2006 , when GDP growth reached a 10-year high of nearly 7 % .
The GONSALVES administration is directing government resources to infrastructure projects , including a new international airport that is expected to be completed in 2011 .
A MAN , very much annoyed with a Flea , caught him at last , and said , " Who are you who dare to feed on my limbs , and to cost me so much trouble in catching you ? '
The Flea replied , " O my dear sir , pray spare my life , and destroy me not , for I can not possibly do you much harm . "
The Man , laughing , replied , " Now you shall certainly die by mine own hands , for no evil , whether it be small or large , ought to be tolerated . "
A Tortoise desired to change its place of residence , so he asked an Eagle to carry him to his new home , promising her a rich reward for her trouble .
The Eagle agreed and seizing the Tortoise by the shell with her talons soared aloft .
On their way they met a Crow , who said to the Eagle : " Tortoise is good eating . "
" The shell is too hard , " said the Eagle in reply .
" The rocks will soon crack the shell , " was the Crow 's answer ; and the Eagle , taking the hint , let fall the Tortoise on a sharp rock , and the two birds made a hearty meal of the Tortoise .
Never soar aloft on an enemy 's pinions .
Two Thieves having stolen a Piano and being unable to divide it fairly without a remainder went to law about it and continued the contest as long as either one could steal a dollar to bribe the judge .
When they could give no more an Honest Man came along and by a single small payment obtained a judgment and took the Piano home , where his daughter used it to develop her biceps muscles , becoming a famous pugiliste .
The smoke detector industry is covering up research showing more people are injured every year falling from ladders and stepstools while trying to replace smoke detector batteries than are injured in house fires .
Turkish security officials say Kurdish rebels killed eight soldiers in an attack on an army outpost in eastern Turkey Monday .
They say several others were wounded when rebels rammed a vehicle into the post and threw a hand grenade in Tunceli province .
One attacker was killed in a shootout following the blast .
At least one other attacker escaped .
On Sunday , the Turkish military shelled a Kurdish rebel stronghold in northern Iraq .
But ground forces did not cross the border .
Turkey has been massing troops near the Iraqi border .
But U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates has warned Turkey against sending troops into northern Iraq to hunt down Kurdish rebels accused of carrying out terrorist attacks in Turkey .
The Kurdistan Worker 's Party , or PKK , has been fighting for autonomy in Turkey 's mainly Kurdish southeast since 1984 .
The United States , the European Union and Turkey classify the PKK as a terrorist group .
Turkey 's prime minister is appealing for national unity after unrest in Kurdish-majority areas of the country left at least 16 people dead in the past week .
Speaking to members of his political party , Recep Tayyip Erdogan Tuesday vowed not to give in to violence and to expand democratic reforms .
He also rejected any dialogue with the main Kurdish political group , the Democratic Society Party , until it openly condemns the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party , or PKK as a terrorist organization .
In the past week , hundreds of Kurds have clashed with Turkish security forces in the country 's southeast .
The unrest started last Tuesday in Diyarbakir after a funeral for 14 members of the PKK killed by the security forces .
The United States has condemned the violence and called on all parties to exercise restraint .
Thousands of demontrators have marched through the Nepalese capital , Kathmandu , to demand the restoration of democracy and the withdrawal of strict new media laws .
Human rights activists , journalists , lawyers , teachers and students chanted slogans protesting restrictions on the media that allow the royal government to shut down newspapers and radio stations .
The new laws also call for longer prison sentences for journalists convicted of defamation .
Criticism of King Gyanendra and independent reporting on Nepal 's Maoist insurgency have been banned since the king seized absolute power on February 1 .
The Maoists have been fighting since 1996 to replace Nepal 's constitutional monarchy with a communist state .
The king says his move was necessary to quell the insurgency , which has claimed more than 11,000 lives .
The White House says President George Bush will host a lunch next month with President-elect Barack Obama and all the living former American presidents .
The White House said Wednesday Mr. Bush has invited his father , George H.W .
Bush , along with former Presidents Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton , to the luncheon that is set for January 7 .
President Bush has made a smooth transition to the next administration a top priority as his presidency winds down .
Last month , Mr. Bush and President-elect Obama held talks at the White House on major issues the incoming chief executive will face during his administration .
Mr. Obama will be sworn into office on January 20 .
Pakistan 's President Pervez Musharraf and visiting Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi have met in Islamabad for talks on nuclear nonproliferation and economic issues .
Japanese diplomats said Saturday the two leaders discussed Islamabad 's efforts to prevent leaks of Pakistani nuclear technology .
International concerns over possible such transfers emerged after Pakistani nuclear scientist Abdul Qadeer Khan confessed last year to illegally selling nuclear technology to several countries , including Iran .
Mr. Khan is currently under Pakistani investigation , but few details have been made public .
The Associated Press quotes a Japanese official as saying Mr. Koizumi promised , as expected , a resumption of Japanese loans to Pakistan , ending a financial freeze imposed after Pakistan 's 1998 nuclear tests .
Mr. Koizumi 's one-day visit to Pakistan comes after his stop for talks Friday in India .
An official at Iran 's Interior Ministry says the estimated 1.5 million Afghan refugees illegally living in the country could face arrest and detention for up to five years .
He says Iranian officials now have legal authority to begin moving unregistered refugees into detention camps with prison-like conditions .
Iran began expelling tens of thousands of Afghan immigrants last April by loading them on buses and dropping them off at the Iran-Afghanistan border .
Several million Afghans fled to Iran after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan almost 30 years ago and from subsequent fighting among Afghan factions .
Iranian officials say the immigrants are causing a strain on the economy .
Since 2002 , the United Nations Refugee Agency has helped 8,00,000 Afghans in Iran return home .
But in recent years the number of returnees has declined because of increasing violence in Afghanistan .
Some French lawmakers have boycotted a meeting with Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi in protest against his country 's human rights record .
Members of the Socialist Party and some from the ruling Union for a Popular Movement refused to attend Tuesday 's event at the National Assembly .
Mr. Gadhafi began his visit to France on Monday and met with French President Nicholas Sarkozy .
Mr. Sarkozy says he asked Mr. Gadhafi to make progress on human rights .
But the Libyan leader later denied that in an interview with French television .
On Monday , the two countries signed business deals worth billions of dollars , including Libya 's purchase of a civilian nuclear reactor and 21 Airbus planes .
It is Mr. Gadhafi 's first trip to France since 1973 .
Libya was long-condemned for supporting terrorism , but its relations with the international community have improved since the country ended its nuclear weapons program in 2003 .
Pakistan and Jordan have called for a quick withdrawal of Israeli forces from Lebanon and the creation of a Palestinian state .
Pakistan 's President Pervez Musharraf and Jordanian King Abdullah spoke to reporters after holding talks Tuesday in Islamabad .
General Musharraf said it is crucial to restore Lebanon 's sovereignty so that the root cause of the Middle East problems can be addressed .
King Abdullah said a just and lasting peace in the Middle East can only be achieved by establishing an independent Palestinian state , living side-by-side with Israel .
He urged the two sides to resume peace negotiations .
Pakistan does not recognize Israel , and has condemned the Jewish state for attacking Lebanon after last month 's kidnapping of two Israeli soldiers by Hezbollah fighters .
Pope John Paul says he is praying for victims of the Asian earthquakes and tidal waves , and is calling on members of the international community to mobilize assistance for victims of the calamity .
Speaking to Roman Catholic pilgrims in Vatican City , the pope said Sunday 's news from Southeast Asia has cast a pall of sadness over Christmas celebrations .
When treating people with Type Two Diabetes , doctors sometimes prescribe high doses of medications that lower blood sugar .
The American Diabetes Association recommends good control of blood sugars in order to reduce the risk of heart attacks .
But recently part of a large clinical diabetes study was halted after researchers found an increased death rate among those taking higher doses of blood sugar lowering medication .
The ACCORD trial , as it is called , is funded by several U.S. government agencies and the finding surprised many doctors .
The surprise death rate has lead some U.S. physicians to push an uncommon diet as a way to lower blood sugar .
VOA 's Shelley Schlender reports from Phoenix , Arizona .
There appears to be growing support for a suggestion that voting in Iraq 's election , now scheduled for January 30 , be spread over a two to three-week period .
In Baghdad Wednesday , the Interior Ministry said staggered voting would facilitate the work of international observers and guarantee the participation of all Iraqis .
Ministry officials also said it would allow for adequate security to be provided to voters and candidates .
The final decision lies with the independent Electoral Commission , not the government .
In Washington , the State Department said the details of the election are up to the Iraqis to decide , but the United States is currently operating under the assumption that elections will be held nationwide on January 30 .
Insurgents in Iraq have carried out a series of attacks Tuesday north of Baghdad against the country 's security forces , killing at least 23 police and national guards .
Eighteen policemen were among the dead .
Authorities say a combination of gunmen and car bombs were responsible for the violence in and near the towns of Tikrit , Samarra , Balad and Baquba .
In Baghdad , officials say a senior National Guard officer survived an apparent assassination attempt when a car bomb exploded near his home .
At least six guardsmen were wounded in the blast .
U.S. Brigadier General Jeffrey Hammond told reporters in Baghdad that the U.S. military in Iraq expects an escalation in attacks and assassination attempts ahead of the January 30 elections .
U.S. President Barack Obama and his wife , Michelle , spent a portion of the Christmas holidays visiting troops and their families at a Hawaii Marine base .
The Obamas visited the same military base last year during their holiday vacation in the president 's home state .
Mr. Obama and the first lady are encouraging the public to support military communities , especially during the holidays when separation from family can be difficult .
Mrs. Obama says a " care package " or a simple " thank you " is an important gift to members of the military .
Sudan 's army says it has killed at least 300 rebels in clashes this week , while losing more than 70 of its own troops .
Sudanese state media on Saturday quoted General Al-Tayeb al-Musbah Osman as describing the fighting with the Darfur region 's Justice and Equality Movement .
The Sudanese general said government forces destroyed rebels ' vehicles during the series of clashes .
Violence in Darfur has increased since insurgent forces withdrew from peace talks in May .
The region has experienced seven years of war and instability since rebels took up arms in 2003 , accusing the government of neglecting the western region .
The United Nations says fighting and related violence have killed 3,00,000 people and displaced more than 2.7 million .
Sudan puts the death toll at 10,000 .
Al-Qaida 's deputy leader , Ayman al-Zawahiri , is second after Osama bin Laden on the F.B.I 's list of most wanted terrorists .
The Egyptian-born doctor has become the terrorist organization 's most senior spokesman - appearing in a series of video , audio and print messages over the past three months .
In his most recent comment broadcast on videotape last week by Arabic broadcaster al-Jazeera , Zawahiri called on President Bush to confess that the United States has been defeated in Iraq and Afghanistan .
Ayman al-Zawahiri was indicted for his alleged involvement in the 1998 bombings of U.S. embassies in Dar es Salaam , Tanzania and Nairobi , Kenya .
He founded the Egyptian Islamic Jihad , a group that opposes the secular Egyptian government and seeks to overthrow it through violent means .
Zawahiri has been on the run since late 2001 after U.S.-led forces invaded Afghanistan .
Thousands of Iranians have gathered in the southeastern city of Bam to mark Sunday 's one-year anniversary of the earthquake that claimed more than 31,000 lives and devastated the ancient city .
Relatives and friends of survivors have been making pilgrimages to Bam 's cemetery to remember the dead with prayers , flowers and candles .
Despite President Mohammed Khatami 's pledge to rebuild , and help from the international community , much of Bam remains in ruins , and the slow pace of reconstruction has angered survivors .
The powerful quake shook the city before dawn on December 26 last year , killing thousands as they slept .
Pakistan 's military says it has killed about 60 pro-Taliban militants in heavy fighting in the country 's northwest .
A military spokesman says fighter jets attacked militant camps in the Swat Valley inflicting heavy casualties .
The attacks took place near Bajaur where there has been heavy fighting between the military and militants since August .
The main town in the area , Khar has been under a strict curfew for several days .
According to the United Nations the fighting has displaced about 1,90,000 people .
The U.N. says many have fled into neighboring Afghanistan to escape the violence .
Colombian officials say leftist rebels have attacked a military convoy in remote northeastern Colombia , killing six soldiers and 10 security officers .
The attack Thursday took place near the town of Hacari in Norte de Santander province , which borders Venezuela .
The Colombian military says it and the Department of Administrative Security ( DAS ) were carrying out operations against the country 's largest rebel group , the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia ( FARC ) when explosives were detonated alongside their convoy .
Violence has increased ahead of the May 28 election , in which anti-crime President Alvaro Uribe , is expected to win re-election .
Human Rights Watch has accused FARC of massacring dozens of civilians , including children in an effort to intimidate voters .
Dozens of commercial truck drivers honked their horns as they circled the U.S. Capitol Thursday to protest the rising cost of diesel fuel .
The drivers looped around the National Mall in Washington D.C. to draw attention to an issue they say is hurting their livelihood .
The average U.S. price of diesel fuel is $ 1.06 per liter .
That is up from 76 cents per liter a year ago .
Meanwhile , the average price of unleaded gasoline in the United States is 88 cents per liter .
That is up from 73 cents per liter this time last year .
The U.S. trade deficit hit the third-highest level on record in August , as the price of imported oil soared .
Thursday 's report from the Commerce Department says the gap between what Americans buy and what they sell abroad was $ 59 billion .
The figures show little impact from Hurricane Katrina , which struck at the end of the month .
But a separate government report from the Labor Department shows storm damage prompted 75,000 more people to apply for unemployment compensation last week .
That brings the total jobs lost to hurricanes to 4,38,000 .
Nationwide , the number of people asking for first time compensation declined slightly during the week .
Analysts say in spite of the hurricanes , the overall labor market is strong as companies expand labor forces to meet growing demand .
Iraq has halted crude oil exports to South Korea , in protest of an exploration deal between Korean firms and the Kurdish regional government .
The annual contract between Iraq and South Korea 's top refiner , SK Energy , was due for renewal January 1 .
SK Energy says it has been told to back out of the Kurdistan deal if it wants exports to resume .
A consortium of South Korean firms led by the state-run Korea National Oil Corporation signed a deal with the Kurdish government to explore the Bazian oil field in the Dahuk region of northern Iraq .
The corporation says it will not change its plans .
South Korean energy officials say Iraqi crude accounts for less than four percent of total imports .
Officials say purchases will be made in the spot market to cover the shortage .
A roadside bomb blast near the motorcade of Iraq 's oil minister has killed at least two of his escorts and wounded two others .
Iraqi officials say Ibrahim Bahr al-Uloum was not hurt in the bombing , which occurred in a north Baghdad district as he set out for the oil refining city of Beiji .
Meanwhile , U.S. military officials deny that al-Qaida in Iraq has abducted two Marines in western Iraq , where U.S. troops are in the third day of an offensive to drive out insurgents .
A website message from the purported kidnappers Sunday said the Marines would be killed unless all female Sunni Muslim prisoners in U.S. and Iraqi custody were freed within 24 hours .
U.S. officials say at least 20 insurgents have been killed in the current operation .
A report commissioned by the British government says the country 's foreign policy contributes to driving some members of its Muslim population toward extremism .
The report says perceived injustices in Western foreign policy , especially in the Middle East , often trigger radical impulses in the Muslim community .
The report adds that criticism of British foreign policy should not be seen as disloyalty .
It says peaceful disagreement is a sign of a healthy democracy .
The Home Office organized seven working groups to prepare the report on the root causes of the July 7 suicide attacks by British Muslims that killed 52 people in London .
The groups made several recommendations , including creation of a British Islam website to counter extremist Islamic Internet sites .
Iraqi officials have increased security in the holy city of Karbala where tens of thousands of pilgrims are gathering for Ashura , one of the most important holy days for Shi'ites .
Authorities have deployed at least 23,000 security force members around the city , located south of Baghdad .
Police say a roadside bomb targeting Shi'ite pilgrims exploded in Baghdad
Tuesday , killing at least 39 people .
Iraqi officials say at least four Shi'ite pilgrims were killed in a suicide bombing near the capital , Monday .
Ashura is celebrated by Shi'ite Muslims around the world .
It commemorates the death of Imam Hussein more than 1,300 years ago .
He was a grandson of the Prophet Mohammed .
Monday is a national holiday in Japan .
It 's " Coming of Age Day , " a day of recognition for those who turn 20 years old this year .
Twenty is the age of adulthood in Japan , when a person is old enough to vote , drink or smoke .
Financial markets and many offices are closed for the holiday .
Municipal governments host special coming of age ceremonies for the 20-year-olds in their juristictions .
The ceremonies are held to encourage responsibility and self-reliance .
Young men usually wear suits to the ceremony .
Young women usually wear special kimonos bought or rented for the event .
Pakistan-based Islamic militants fighting Indian rule in Kashmir have announced what they are calling a " new jihad " or holy struggle to help victims of Saturday 's quake .
The group was originally known as Lashkar-e-Toiba .
But it changed its name to Jamaat-ud-Dawa after the United States blacklisted it as a terrorist organization .
It says its activists have launched a campaign throughout Pakistan to collect relief goods for quake victims in Pakistani Kashmir .
A spokesman for the group says all members of the group are busy in the new effort .
The charity has dispatched trucks carrying blankets , tents and food to quake-affected areas and it plans to send more .
The spokesman also was quoted as saying the group has set up three field hospitals in the worst hit Pakistani city of Muzaffarabad .
Officials in Djibouti say two of their soldiers were killed and at least 21 others wounded in a battle with Eritrean forces on their disputed border .
Djibouti military and diplomatic sources say the fighting began Tuesday in the northern Mount Gabla area .
Sporadic fighting was reported Wednesday .
Officials in Djibouti say the fighting began after several Eritrean soldiers deserted , crossing the border into Djibouti and drawing gunfire from the Eritrean troops .
The Eritrean government has not confirmed or denied the incident .
It did issue a statement saying it was surprised by Djibouti 's recent anti-Eritrean campaigns and refused to be drawn into what it called Djibouti 's " concocted animosity . "
The two Horn of Africa nations have been locked in a standoff since mid-April , when Djibouti accused Eritrean troops of illegally crossing into its territory .
The countries clashed over their border in the 1990s .
Two U.S. lawmakers who blocked $ 100 million in U.S. aid to Lebanon 's military say they have lifted their hold on the funds after being assured the aid would not fall into the hands of Hezbollah militants threatening Israel .
Democratic Representative Howard Berman released a statement Friday saying he based his decision to release the funds on a U.S. review of the aid-to-Lebanon program and a series of classified briefings with Obama administration officials .
Fellow Democratic Representative Nita Lowey confirmed through a spokesman that she has also lifted her hold on the funds .
The lawmakers withheld their support for the aid to the Lebanese Armed Forces in August after a border clash between Lebanese and Israeli soldiers that killed two Lebanese soldiers , a Lebanese journalist , and an Israeli officer .
Berman is chairman of the House Foreign Affairs committee .
Lowey heads a foreign operations subcommittee on the House Appropriations committee .
Iranian authorities say a bomb exploded at a military parade in the northwest and has killed at least 12 people , wounding 70 others .
Reports from Mahabad say most of the victims are women and children .
The wives of two military officers are said to be among those killed .
The bomb went off at a military parade in the northwestern town Wednesday morning .
Similar events are being held around the country as it marks the beginning of the Iran-Iraq war , 30 years ago .
No one immediately claimed responsibility for the blast .
But provincial Governor Vahid Jalalzadeh blamed what he called " counter-revolutionary groups . "
The phrase is often used to refer to Kurdish militants in the region .
Mahabad lies close to the borders of Turkey and Iraq and is home to many ethnic Kurds and minority Sunni Muslims .
When fireworks light the sky at the Beijing Olympics opening ceremonies , Cai Guo-Quiang will be making art .
This Chinese born artist who now calls New York home creates artwork from fireworks and gunpowder .
He is currently designing the computer-controlled firework spectacle that will mark the start of the Beijing games .
Recently , his work was on display at New York 's Guggenheim Museum in an exhibit called I Want to Believe .
For producer Wang Yiru , Elaine Lu has the story .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says the United Nations may need to take a greater role in peacekeeping efforts in Sudan 's war-weary Darfur region .
Ms. Rice says the 7000-member African Union peacekeeping force in Darfur is " pretty close to the limits " of its ability to contain violence , amid mounting tensions along the border between Sudan and Chad .
The Secretary of State says the Sudanese government should cooperate with the international community , instead of opposing proposals to increase the peacekeeping force in the country 's restive western region .
Three years of war in Darfur between rebel groups and a pro-government Arab militia have displaced millions of people from their homes .
The conflict has killed tens of thousands of people .
The U.S. Peace Corps is evacuating 35 of its volunteers from western Kenya because of the violence that has rocked the country since the disputed December 27 presidential election .
The relief agency says the volunteers are safe , and should arrive in the main Tanzanian city of Dar es Salaam Saturday .
The Peace Corps has 144 volunteers based in Kenya , although the organization says 22 of them are currently out of the country .
An agency statement says the remaining volunteers have been " consolidated in a variety of locations . "
The U.S. Embassy in Nairobi is asking U.S. citizens in Kenya to remain indoors while the fighting continues , and urges them to consider leaving for their own safety .
More than 300 people have been killed in the post-election violence .
A doctor for the World Health Organization in Ivory Coast says 40 people have died from meningitis and more than 200 have been infected in rebel-held parts of the country .
Spokesman Aka Bian Tanoh blamed the outbreak on the lack of vaccines and trained medical workers , who have fled violence in the area after a failed coup attempt sparked at civil war in 2002 .
He says a vaccination campaign is urgently needed in the northeastern region of Bouna , noting that immunizations have dropped sharply since last year .
Ivory Coast has been divided between the rebel-held north and government-controlled south since the end of violence in 2003 .
Mauritania has asked for international aid to help thousands of homeless people after heavy rains caused mudslides in the eastern part of the country .
The country 's finance minister , Abderahmane Ould Hamma Vezzaz , said Sunday about 10,000 people in and around the town of Tintane were left homeless after heavy rains that started last week .
Those rains caused mudslides that wiped out homes and businesses in much of the town in southeastern Mauritania , near the border with Mali .
At least two people were reported killed in the mudslides and an unknown number of others are missing .
China 's health ministry has confirmed the country 's eighth human infection of bird flu .
The official Xinhua news agency reports officials said a six-year-old boy in central Hunan province first showed symptoms of the disease on December 24 and is now being treated for the deadly H5N1 strain of the virus .
Also today , Indonesia 's Health Ministry says initial medical tests indicate a 39-year-old man died of suspected bird flu earlier this month .
A ministry official says the man had been in contact with sick poultry .
If the World Health Organization laboratory confirms the man had the H5N1 strain of bird flu , it will raise Indonesia 's death toll from the virus to 12 .
Bird flu is known to have killed more than 70 people in Asia since 2003 .
Investigators in Mexico have recovered at least 18 bodies from a mass grave near the Pacific coast resort city of Acapulco .
Authorities do not yet know if the bodies found in the grave are those of the 20 men abducted last month while visiting Acapulco from neighboring Michoacan state .
Police began digging at the site after receiving an anonymous tip , which led them to discover two bodies nearby .
An eruption of suspected drug violence has left more than 28,000 people dead across Mexico since the government began cracking down on cartels in 2006 .
Meanwhile , U.S. officials said they have discovered a tunnel used for drug smuggling across the California-Mexico border .
Authorities said they seized 20 tons of marijuana at a site near the tunnel , which ran more than 500 meters underground from Mexico to Otay Mesa , California .
Iran 's Intelligence Minister has accused the United States of spying on the country 's nuclear sites .
Iran 's state-run news agency ( IRNA ) quoted Ali Yunesi as saying the United States has been using satellites and other tools to spy on Iran for a long time .
Earlier this week , the Washington Post reported that unmanned surveillance drones have been flying over Iran for almost a year to search for evidence of nuclear weapons programs and detect weaknesses in air defenses .
Meanwhile , the head of the U.N. nuclear agency says there has been no evidence so far to support U.S. suspicions that Tehran is developing nuclear weapons .
In an interview with four U.S. newspapers ( including the Post ) , Mohamed ElBaradei also called for greater U.S. participation in diplomatic efforts to engage Iran and North Korea in talks about their nuclear programs .
A new opinion poll conducted in eight nations that are U.S. allies indicates a majority of people do not want the United States to secretly interrogate suspected terrorists in their country .
The Associated Press-Ipsos poll last month asked people in Canada , Mexico , South Korea , France , Germany , Italy , Spain and Britain about their opinions on torturing and secretly interrogating terrorist suspects .
The poll shows a clear majority of people in every nation would oppose secret American interrogations conducted in their country .
However , people were more closely split over whether it is justified to torture suspected terrorists to obtain information about terrorist activities .
A majority of respondents in Spain and Italy said such action would never be justified .
But about half of people in Canada , Mexico , France , Germany and Britain said torture could be justified on certain occasions .
Monday marks the one year anniversary of the tsunami that devastated the Indian Ocean coastline from Malaysia to East Africa and memorials to the victims of that natural disaster have already begun .
In Thailand Saturday , some mourners prayed , others observed a moment of silence while separately the country 's sea gypsy tribe , the Moken , banged drums , chanted and made offerings to the sea .
The tsunami , triggered by a massive earthquake off Sumatra island , killed more than 2,00,000 people and left more than two million people homeless .
Many ceremonies are planned for Monday , when survivors , relatives of victims , government officials and others in the region and around the world mark the day that one of the worst natural disasters in recent history occurred .
Poland and the United States have opened formal talks on a controversial U.S. plan to place part of a U.S. missile defense system on Polish soil .
A U.S. State Department senior advisor , Robert Loftis , met Monday in Warsaw with Polish defense officials .
U.S. embassy spokesman Andrew Schilling characterized the meeting as a good beginning , with an exchange of ideas about how negotiations should move forward .
Another round of higher level talks is set for next week involving senior U.S. envoy John Rood , the U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for International Security .
Polish Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski has voiced support for the deployment of 10 U.S. missile interceptors in Poland and guidance technology in the Czech Republic .
Washington has repeatedly said the missile system is aimed at protecting the United States and its allies from missile attacks from Iran .
Russia strongly opposes the plan , saying the missile shield would threaten Russian security .
Palestinian Prime Minister Ahmed Qureia has submitted his resignation to run for a seat in the Palestinian parliament in next month 's elections .
Mr. Qureia , a former Fatah party peace negotiator under the late Yasser Arafat , was required by law to leave office ahead of the January 25 polls .
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas did not immediately name a replacement .
Late Wednesday , the rival Hamas party registered a slate of candidates headed by senior leader Ismail Haniyah .
The slate also includes two widows of prominent militants killed by the Israeli military .
Another candidate , Mariam Farhat , is the mother of three militant sons killed over the past three years by Israeli forces .
Meanwhile , the fourth and final phase of local council elections was completed Thursday in parts of the West Bank and Gaza Strip .
Airport officials from around the world are cautioning passengers to " pack lightly " and arrive early as delays continue following Thursday 's arrest in Britain of key figures in an alleged plot to blow up U.S.-bound airliners .
British officials are asking passengers Friday to arrive prepared for security checks .
Travelers should have no hand luggage and items like prescription medicine should be kept in clear plastic bags .
Long lines are reported at Heathrow Airport , with many flights being canceled .
Asian airports have introduced new security measures Friday as well , banning all liquids and gels from cabins .
New Zealand also banned the substances from flights to Britain and the United States .
U.S. authorities have designated all U.S.-bound flights from Britain under a " severe " threat level , the highest level of alert .
All other international flights are operating under a " high " threat level .
Iran has expressed interest in continuing talks with the United States on Iraq , begun last month in Baghdad .
Iranian media quote Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki as saying Tehran will view a continuation of the talks positively , if Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki and other Iraqi officials call for them to take place .
Mottaki spoke after meeting Sunday in Tehran with Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Barham Saleh .
Late last month , the U.S. ambassador to Iraq , Ryan Crocker , held talks with his Iranian counterpart , Hassan Kazemi Qomi , on the security situation in Iraq .
During the talks , the U.S. urged Iran to stop supporting militias in Iraq .
Crocker said Tehran asserted that the coalition presence in Iraq was an occupation .
Tehran denies it is responsible for insurgent attacks in Iraq .
Last month 's meeting marked the highest-level talks between the U.S. and Iran in almost 30 years .
Bermet Akayeva
The daughter of ousted Kyrgyz President Askar Akayev has unexpectedly appeared in parliament to assume the seat she won in disputed elections earlier this year .
Bermet Akayeva returned to Bishkek after weeks in self-imposed exile following a late March coup .
She told journalists outside the parliament Thursday that she does not expect any problems from the Kyrgyz people , nor does she fear prosecution .
Ms. Akayeva predicted that her brother Aidar , who also won a parliamentary seat , will return to Kyrgyzstan soon .
Last week , parliament voted to strip the members of Mr. Akayev 's family of immunity from prosecution .
Her father , who resigned last week after nearly 15 years in power , fled Kyrgyzstan after protesters ransacked his offices in Bishkek and the opposition seized power March 24 .
North Korea 's demand that it be given a light water reactor before dismantling its nuclear weapons program has sparked mixed reactions from the six nations attending the talks .
The White House says the demand is the opposite of the sequence of events agreed to on Monday and suggested Pyongyang needs time to reflect on the deal .
Japan called the demand " unacceptable . "
China 's Foreign Ministry urged all sides to keep their commitments .
North Korea had pledged to give up its nuclear weapons in return for energy aid and security assurances at talks in Beijing .
Parties agreed that supplying a light water reactor for civilian use would be discussed later .
But soon after signing the agreement , the North said Washington should not expect Pyongyang to dismantle its weapons before it received light water reactors .
At least four people , including a German peacekeeper , have been killed in two separate suicide attacks against the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force in the Afghan capital , Kabul .
Local authorities say the two bombings Monday occurred within 90 minutes of each other on a 500-meter stretch of road near the offices of organizers of last September 's legislative elections .
They say the attackers rammed explosive-laden cars into vehicles belonging to the NATO-led peacekeepers , and that several people were wounded in the incidents .
Later in the day , NATO troops foiled what they believe was an attempted third attack by opening fire on a car racing toward the scene of the initial blasts .
Witnesses say at least two people in the car were killed .
A man identifying himself as a spokesman for the ousted Taleban said the group was responsible for the attacks and warned of more suicide bombings .
Mexican President Vicente Fox has called on United States and Mexico to work together to control lawlessness along the border of the two countries .
Speaking in the Mexican state of Sonora Tuesday , Mr. Fox said the crime along the border is the shared responsibility of both governments .
Mr. Fox issued his call after the governors of two U.S. states , Arizona and New Mexico , declared states of emergency along their border with Mexico .
Both Janet Napolitano of Arizona and Bill Richardson of New Mexico have accused the U.S. federal government of not doing enough to control drug traffickers , illegal immigrant smugglers , and criminal gangs .
Asked about the governors ' actions , U.S. State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said Mexico has taken significant steps to address violence on the border .
He said the U.S. and Mexican governments are working together " very closely " to improve border security .
U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Zalmay Khalilzad says Saddam Hussein 's conviction by an Iraqi court for crimes against humanity is an " important milestone " for the country .
Khalilzad says in a statement issued Sunday that " closing the book " on Saddam gives Iraq an opportunity to unite and build a better future .
He acknowledged that Iraq may face difficult times in the coming weeks , in a reference to fears the verdict will spark a sectarian backlash .
The U.S. ambassador praised the Iraqi judges and attorneys who worked on the trial for showing courage in the face of intimidation .
He says the trial demonstrates Iraq 's determination to hold Saddam and his co-defendants accountable for their crimes .
Three defense lawyers for Saddam were murdered during the trial , prompting the defense team to complain that Iraq 's government had not provided it with enough security .
Sri Lanka 's national cricket team will have to wait until Friday to leave New Zealand , as players anxiously attempt to get home following this week 's devastating tsunami .
No flights were available for the Sri Lanka team , which canceled its tour of New Zealand after this week 's disaster .
No players lost close relatives in the tsunami disaster , though the mothers of two players were injured .
New Zealand and Sri Lanka agreed to cancel the tour Wednesday so that players could return home .
The International Cricket Council agreed to the move , and said its normal penalties would not be imposed in this case .
The death toll in Sri Lanka from Sunday 's tsunami is more than 22,000 people .
New Zealand is hoping to reschedule the tour within the next two years .
Thousands of students in several Egyptian cities have protested the Israeli army 's killing of three Egyptian policemen on the Gaza border .
Students called on the government Sunday to reject Israel 's apology and allow Egyptians to wage holy war over the incident .
The Egyptian government has demanded a formal inquiry into the Thursday shootings , in which Israeli troops said they mistook the policemen for Palestinian insurgents .
Egypt has also suspended a planned trip to Israel by its Foreign Minister after the killings .
Two separate attacks in the southern Iraqi city of Basra killed at least 14 people , including four American security guards , on Wednesday .
Iraqi police say a suicide bomber detonated his explosives filled car in front of a busy restaurant , killing 10 people and injuring 15 others .
Hours earlier , the four private American guards were killed in a roadside bomb blast in the Shi'ite dominated city .
In other developments , U.S. troops rescued American contractor Roy Hallums , who was kidnapped more than 10 months ago .
He is reported in good physical condition .
Separately , the U.S. military says Iraqi and American forces have carried out dozens of joint operations in Baghdad this week , detaining more than 50 suspected terrorists .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says she thinks the insurgents in Iraq are " losing steam " ( energy ) as a political force .
In an interview with Time magazine published Sunday , Ms. Rice said she believes the insurgents have become more and more isolated from Iraq 's people as the country 's political process moves forward .
Ms. Rice also argued that the media focus too much on violence in Iraq and not enough on what she called Iraq 's " rather quiet political progress . "
China 's parliament has passed legislation giving the country 's military a legal basis for attacking Taiwan if the island moves toward declaring independence .
The law was approved early Monday by the National People 's Congress - a largely rubber-stamp legislature that approves decisions made by the ruling Communist Party .
Beijing considers Taiwan a renegade province , and opposes any moves by the island to boost its international profile .
The new law says China will employ " non-peaceful means " to prevent Taiwanese independence if efforts at peaceful reunification fail .
Chinese President Hu Jintao Sunday urged the armed forces to step up preparations for possible military struggle .
But , speaking after its passage , Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said the new law is not a " war bill . "
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice , speaking on American television ( ABC ) , urged both China and Taiwan to avoid actions that could raise tensions .
Survivors of the devastating earthquake and tsunami that swept across Indonesia 's northern Aceh province marked the first year anniversary of the disaster - with prayers for the more than 1,69,000 people who perished in the disaster in Indonesia .
Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono led a group of a thousand tsunami survivors , dignitaries , and aid workers in prayer on the shoreline in Banda Aceh where the tsunami struck .
" We stand here together today in remembrance of that suffering paying respect , once again , to the good men and women and all the children lost to the sea , " he said .
All across Aceh province , bells rang and people bowed their heads in prayer .
It was the worst hit region of the 12 Indian Ocean nations hit by the tsunami , which killed more than 2,30,000 people .
China says it will launch its second manned space mission in September , 2005 .
Chinese state media says it will send two astronauts on the Shenzhou Six spacecraft for a five-day mission to circle the Earth .
Fourteen astronauts are currently training for the flight including Astronaut Yang Liwei , who became China 's first man in space when he flew aboard Shenzhou Five in October , 2003 .
China is only the third nation to launch a man into space , behind the United States and Russia .
Palestinian authorities say raw sewage has swept through a Bedouin village in the northern Gaza Strip , killing at least four people .
Officials say sewage and mud completely submerged at least 25 buildings in Umm Naser village , after the earthen wall of a sewage pool collapsed Tuesday .
Hospital sources say at least 15 people were injured , and residents say scores of villagers are missing .
In 2004 , the United Nations warned that the sewage facility was operating well beyond capacity , but local government lacked the financial resources to construct a new facility .
Witnesses say angry villagers threw stones and opened fire on the convoy of Palestinian Interior Minister Hani al-Qawasmi , who went to inspect the damage .
Israeli troops have shot dead a Palestinian militant in the West Bank .
Israeli army officials say soldiers killed Mahmoud Hammad , a member of the militant group Islamic Jihad , as he tried to escape from a house in the village of Raba , close to the West Bank town of Jenin .
They say the militant was carrying a weapon when he was shot .
Israeli troops have carried out frequent raids in West Bank cities and towns targeting militants spearheading a four-year-old Palestinian uprising .
The leader of Brazil 's ruling Workers Party has resigned amid a bribes-for-votes scandal in Congress .
Jose Genoino announced his resignation Saturday at a news conference in Sao Paulo .
Later , the party elected Education Minister Tarso Genro as its new leader .
Mr. Genoino 's resignation comes amid allegations that the Workers Party paid $ 12,000 a month to several lawmakers to win their support on key votes .
The party denies the accusations .
Mr. Genoino is the latest senior official in President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva 's government to leave his post .
Both the party treasurer and secretary-general stepped down recently .
The scandal also forced presidential chief of staff Jose Dirceu to resign last month .
President da Silva has been reshuffling his Cabinet to boost support for his governing coalition .
Swiss food giant Nestle has resumed operations in Zimbabwe , after resolving a dispute with the government .
Nestle officials said Tuesday that government officials have assured the company they will not interfere with its business .
Nestle shut down its factory in Harare last month , citing harassment by Zimbabwean authorities .
It said officials had forced staff to accept milk from " non-contracted suppliers " and also questioned two managers .
The company had said in October that it would not buy milk from a farm owned by the wife of President Robert Mugabe .
The farm had been seized from white farmers under Mr. Mugabe 's controversial land reform program .
Critics say the Mugabe government 's seizure of white-owned commercial farms has devastated Zimbabwe 's economy .
Mr. Mugabe was forced to accept a power-sharing agreement with the longtime opposition MDC party last year .
The trouble that began on Wall Street is beginning to trickle down to Main Street , as small businesses find credit tightening up .
Many banks are wary about lending until it 's clear who will take responsibility for the bad debt they are carrying .
Many small business owners are finding it hard to borrow to finance their operations , and they worry about whether their customers will be able to buy their products .
Leta Hong Fincher has more .
Pakistani police say a bomb has exploded outside a Shi'ite mosque in the country 's northwest , killing at least four people .
The bomb went off in the city of Dera Ismail Khan Monday as worshipers were leaving the mosque after evening prayers .
The explosion destroyed parts of the mosque and wounded at least two people .
Police say they suspect the bomb was on a timer .
They do not know who planted the device .
Dera Ismail Khan in North West Frontier Province has a history of sectarian violence .
Last month , gunmen killed at least six Shi'ite Muslims in two suspected sectarian attacks in Dera Ismail Khan .
Most Pakistanis are Sunni Muslims , but Shi'ites make up about 20 percent of the country 's 160 million people .
The communities generally coexist peacefully , but militants from both sides have attacked each other since the 1980s .
A strong earthquake has struck off the coast of Indonesia , but no tsunami alert was issued .
The U.S. Geological Survey reported a 6.1 magnitude earthquake south of the main island of Java on Monday .
The quake struck about 15 kilometers under the sea .
There were no immediate reports of injuries or damage .
Another earthquake that struck off Java 's southern coast last week killed at least 64 people and damaged or destroyed more than 87,000 homes .
That magnitude-7.0 earthquake shook buildings and caused panic in the capital , Jakarta , about 200 kilometers away .
Indonesia 's 18,000 islands sit atop tectonic plates that frequently slam together to cause massive earthquakes .
Iraqi officials say they have stepped up security measures ahead of the Asia Cup final match between Iraq and Saudi Arabia to be played in Jakarta Sunday .
After last week 's semi-final victory against South Korea , 50 people were killed and 130 others wounded by two car bombs , when thousands of Iraqis poured into the streets to celebrate .
Authorities have announced a vehicle ban in parts of Iraq ahead of the game Outside the capital , U.S. military officials said coalition forces killed eight terrorists and detained 22 other suspects during operations Sunday targeting al-Qaida members across central Iraq .
The military also says the troops killed seven terrorists and detained one person during an operation near Muqudadiyah Wednesday and Thursday .
Earlier , U.S. military said coalition forces captured 16 suspected terrorists in raids Saturday targeting al-Qaida in Iraq .
Today , April 22 is Earth Day , a global event that began in 1970 and is credited by some with giving birth to the modern environmental movement .
Earth Day grew from an annual event in the United States to a global event in about 180 countries .
It 's a day of celebration in some places , but has also turned into a day of action and reflection and conversation and sometimes protest about the situation with our environment , particularly climate change .
VOA 's Paul Sisco has more .
Six people are missing and at least 42 injured after an explosion ripped through a sugar refinery in the southeastern U.S. city of Savannah , in the state of Georgia .
The blast caused a massive fire that firefighters were still trying to bring under control more than 12 hours after the explosion .
The refinery is owned by Imperial Sugar Company .
A company spokesman says the blast tore through a silo where refined sugar is kept .
He suspects sugar dust , which can be volatile , may have caused the explosion .
About 100 workers were inside the refinery at the time of the blast .
United Nations agencies are appealing for immediate assistance to communities on the Somali coast affected by South Asia 's earthquake-generated tsunami .
The appeal was issued Friday by the U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs , which took part in an aerial assessment of the affected areas in northern Somalia .
Meanwhile , the number of dead in Somalia has climbed to at least 132 people , although the Associated Press quotes a senior Somali official as putting the number at 200 .
Many others remain missing .
The United Nations says it is difficult to get a clear picture of both the number of those killed and the extent of the damage because the region is remote and the conditions are harsh .
The U.N. World Food Program began distributing relief supplies Wednesday in the town of Hafun on the northern coast of Somalia .
The tsunami also took lives in Tanzania , Seychelles and Kenya .
Olympic champion Philipp Schoch of Switzerland and compatriot Ursula Bruhin have won World Cup parallel giant slalom snowboard events in Le Relais , Canada .
Schoch beat Austrian Andreas Prommegger in the final , winning both runs .
Schoch leads the World Cup standings with 1,700 points .
Countryman Heinz Inniger is second ( 1,630 points ) with Switzerland 's Gilles Jaquet third ( 1,460 points ) .
In the women 's final , Ursula Bruhin beat compatriot Fraenzi Kohli in both runs to take the title .
Another Swiss athlete , Daniela Meuli , finished third .
Bruhin is tied with French skier Julie Pomagalski atop the World Cup standings with 1,950 points .
Salt Lake City gold medalist Isabelle Blanc of France is third with 1,900 points .
Yemen has executed an Islamic militant convicted of killing three American medical workers in 2002 .
Authorities say a firing squad killed Abed Abdul Razak Kamel in the central prison of Yemen 's Ibb province Monday , one day after President Ali Abdullah Saleh endorsed his death sentence .
Kamel opened fire on American medical staff at a Baptist hospital in the southern Yemen town of Jibla .
Authorities believe he may have been part of or linked to a terror network .
A prominent leader of France 's far-right has gone on trial for questioning whether the Nazis used gas chambers in the Holocaust .
Bruno Gollnisch , the deputy leader of France 's National Front Party , appeared in court in Lyon to answer charges of " disputing crimes against humanity . "
Gollnisch , a member of the European parliament , received a five-year suspension from his post as a professor of Japanese at Lyon University after he made the comments at a press conference in 2004 .
He faces a possible one-year prison sentence if he is convicted .
A government spokesman says Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf will seek another five-year term after his current tenure ends in 2007 .
Pakistan 's Information Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed made the announcement Tuesday , saying Pakistan needs his leadership .
He did not say if he would also continue as the army chief .
Pakistan 's parliament currently has a majority of pro-Musharraf lawmakers , and it was generally considered likely that General Musharraf would remain at the helm after the general elections in 2007 .
But up until now he had not publicly declared his intentions .
General Musharraf seized power in a bloodless coup in October , 1999 , appointed himself president in June , 2001 , and won a heavily criticized referendum in April , 2002 .
He then won a parliamentary vote of confidence a year later .
Uganda 's main opposition leader Kizza Besigye has pleaded not guilty to charges of treason .
Twenty two co-defendants also entered pleas of innocence during a hearing in Uganda 's High Court Tuesday .
Besigye 's supporters say the treason charge is one of several the government made up to keep him from making an effective challenge to President Yoweri Museveni in recent elections .
Museveni won the February election but Besigye 's party has asked the Ugandan Supreme Court to nullify the results .
The High Court dropped rape charges against Besigye last month , and President Museveni said Besigye would not be tried by a military court that had charged him with terrorism and illegal arms possession .
The treason trial proceedings have been adjourned until Wednesday because the court did not have a translator for the first prosecution witness , a woman who speaks the Acholi language .
The World Health Organization says an outbreak of Marburg virus in Angola is not yet over , as the death toll continues to rise .
A WHO spokeswoman , Aphaluck Bhatiasevi , says there have been some recent cases that do not have a clear link to previous cases , a finding the U.N. agency is concerned about .
Angolan officials say 292 people have died from Marburg out of a total of 336 people identified as having been infected by the virus .
So far , all those infected are believed to have contracted the disease in northern Uige province .
The virus kills quickly , spreading through contact with bodily fluids such as blood , excrement , vomit and saliva .
Three Jordanians and an Algerian man have been convicted Wednesday of plotting attacks on Jewish targets in Germany .
The three Jordanian men , Mohammed Abu Dhess , Ismail Shalabi , and Ashraf al-Dagma were also convicted of belonging to al-Tawhid , an organization believed to be linked to al-Qaida and headed by Abu Musab al-Zarqawi , who now claims to be head of al-Qaeda in Iraq .
They were sentenced to six to eight years in prison .
The Algerian , Djamel Mustafa was sentenced to five years in prison for his role in planning attacks and supporting a terrorist group .
All four were accused of planning to use explosives against Jewish-owned discotheques in Dusseldorf and a Jewish community center in Berlin .
Another Jordanian man , Shadi Abdalla was convicted separately in 2003 .
He testified against the other four suspects .
Google won a key European Union court ruling on trademark issues Tuesday .
The European Court of Justice , Europe 's highest court , said Google did not violate luxury goods trademarks by allowing companies to buy other companies ' brand names as advertising key words .
Google is the world 's most-widely used Internet search company , and it makes tens of billions of dollars a year by selling the right to display advertisements next to search results .
Luxury goods makers like Luis Vuitton complained that competitors were buying the right to use Luis Vuitton brand names as key words .
That could guide customers to buy goods at web sites run by Vuitton 's competitors , including counterfeiters .
The European Court of Justice said Google must remove the advertisements quickly if trademark holders show the ads are used for illegal activity like selling counterfeit goods .
Opera fans in New York were recently treated to a rare performance of one the most ambitious musical theater pieces ever produced .
Bernd Alois Zimmermann 's Die Soldaten was mounted in the cavernous drill hall of the Park Avenue Armory .
VOA 's Behnam Nateghi takes us behind the scenes for a closer look at the staging of this German opera .
A 300-member delegation from South Korea has arrived in North Korea to take part in celebrations marking the fifth anniversary of the historic 2000 inter-Korean summit .
The delegation includes politicians and representatives from labor unions , religious and agricultural groups .
The June 15 , 2000 summit in Pyongyang marked the first and only time the leaders of North and South Korea have met .
South Korean Unification Minister Chung Dong-young leads a separate 40 member government delegation to Wednesday 's anniversary celebrations .
Mr. Chung is carrying messages from last week 's summit between South Korean President Roh Moo-hyun and President Bush , urging North Korea to return to the six-nation talks aimed at ending its nuclear weapons program .
China has signed a deal with Nigeria to build an $ 8-billion oil refinery near the city of Lagos , in another example of China 's investment in Africa .
The Lagos state government made the announcement Tuesday , saying that 80 percent of the money is coming from China and the other 20 percent from the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation .
This new refinery is expected to produce some 3,00,000 barrels of oil a day in the Lekki Free Trade Zone in Lagos state .
The Lagos refinery is part of a larger deal to build three new refineries and a petrochemical complex in Nigeria .
The new projects are expected to increase the country 's production of refined oil from 4,50,000 barrels to 7,50,000 barrels per day .
Nigeria is one of the world 's biggest oil producers , but its current refineries operate far below capacity because of aging equipment and poor maintenance .
Former rebels in Indonesia 's Aceh province are beginning a second round of weapons surrender Friday as part of a peace accord designed to end 29 years of separatist violence .
Members of the Free Aceh Movement are expected to hand over 210 more weapons in the next few days to international monitors in northern Aceh .
In return , the Indonesian government is scheduled to withdraw 6,500 more soldiers from the province .
Under the peace accord , the Free Aceh Movement must decommission all its weapons in exchange for the withdrawal of 32,000 police and troops by the end of the year .
Implementation began in September .
Many Acehnese want a separate Islamic state and resent that profits from their rich natural resources have been directed elsewhere by the central government in Jakarta .
World oil prices declined below $ 54 a barrel Friday after hitting records above $ 58 early this week .
The easing of prices follows a U.S. government report on Wednesday showing an increasing supply of crude oil in the U.S. market , and growing refinery operations to turn out gasoline .
While prices have dropped , they are still about 44 percent higher than they were a year ago .
Most economists surveyed by the Bloomberg financial news service say high oil prices and rising interest rates will slow U.S. economic growth later this year .
Georgian President Mikhail Saakashvili has presented his nominee for prime minister to parliament , one week after the death of the previous minister .
Mr. Saakashvili praised the work of the nominee , Finance Minister Zurab Nogaideli , and said he deserves the promotion .
Lawmakers are to vote on the nomination Friday .
Parliament speaker Nino Burdzhanadze had said the choice was quite unexpected , and other candidates had been under consideration .
Mr. Nogaideli would succeed Zurab Zhvania , who was found dead last week in a Tbilisi apartment from what officials say was accidental gas poisoning .
In his address to parliament Thursday , President Saakashvili also hailed the achievements Georgia has made in battling corruption and boosting the economy since his election just over one year ago .
He also said he is ready to travel again to Russia to strengthen relations with Moscow .
President Bush has thanked U.S. and Iraqi troops for working to ensure a safe voting environment as Iraqis vote on a new constitution Saturday .
Mr. Bush conducted a video conference Thursday with members of the U.S. Army 's 42nd Infantry Division in Tikrit , Iraq , to discuss preparations for Saturday 's constitutional referendum .
First Lieutenant Greg Murphy told the president that Iraqi troops have taken the lead in security preparations for the vote .
He said conditions were different in the January elections for a transitional government , when coalition troops controlled security .
Captain David Williams says Iraqis are ready and eager to vote on the constitution .
He says voter registration in north-central Iraq is up 17 percent , which translates to about 4,00,000 new voters .
Approval of the constitution on Saturday would clear the way for national elections in December .
Witnesses say at least 10 people have been injured in a grenade attack on a Somali parliament member 's house .
The home of Abdullahi Shaleyste in the southwestern town of Baidoa was attacked late Thursday .
The lawmaker was apparently unharmed but members of his family were injured in the blast .
At least four of the wounded are said to be in serious condition .
No one has claimed responsibility for the attack .
Islamist insurgents have waged a bloody 17-month battle against Somalia 's Ethiopian-backed interim government .
The government and exiled opposition leaders who back the insurgents are set to resume reconcilation talks in Djibouti on Saturday .
However , leaders of the Eritrean-based Alliance for the Re-Liberation of Somalia appear split on whether the group should be holding the talks .
Hard-liners in the group say no talks should take place until Ethiopia withdraws its troops from Somalia .
Russian news media reports say prosecutors have released two of 10 suspects detained in the killing of investigative journalist Anna Politkovskaya .
The reports Thursday say authorities freed Oleg Alimov and Alexei Berkin .
Russian Prosecutor General Yuri Chaika Monday announced the arrest of 10 people in the case .
He said the murder was organized by a Chechen emigre who had led a group of contract killers in Moscow .
He said evidence as to a motive pointed to what he called attempts from abroad to destabilize Russia and discredit its leaders .
Russian news media reports earlier had named an agent of the Federal Security Service , Pavel Ryaguzov , as one of the suspects in the case .
But a military court in Moscow Thursday said his arrest is not linked to Politkovskaya 's murder .
The journalist was gunned down in her Moscow apartment building last year on October 7 .
The spiritual leader of the Anglican church has written an article criticizing the U.S. and British governments for their roles in the Iraq war .
The Archbishop of Canterbury , Rowan Williams , says in an article published in the London Times Saturday that military actions in the Middle East put Christians in the region at risk .
The Archbishop said that Middle Eastern Christians are frequently seen as supporters of the West .
He says the war has troubled relations between Muslims and Christians in countries such as Iraq , Egypt and Turkey .
The Archbishop wrote specifically about the isolation of Christians in the city of Bethlehem in the West Bank .
Christians revere Bethlehem as the birthplace of Jesus .
Archbishop Williams has been visiting the Holy Land before Christmas with other church leaders from Britain .
A U.S.-based human rights organization alleges that detainees in U.S. custody in Iraq were routinely subjected to beatings , sleep deprivation , stress positions and other forms of abuse by American interrogators .
In a report released Sunday , New York based Human Rights Watch said the findings come from first-hand accounts from U.S. military personnel .
The report alleges that detainee abuse was an established and apparently authorized part of the detention and interrogation process .
Human Rights Watch used the report to call for a Congressional investigation into the scope of detainee abuse and allegations of involvement by higher level officials .
But the U.S. Defense Department has said that multiple reviews of prisoner interrogation methods have concluded that no uniformed or civilian leaders directed or encouraged the prisoner abuses committed in Iraq .
One man was seriously wounded and several others injured in clashes between Bosnian Croats and Muslims in Mostar after Croatia 's loss in a World Cup football match Tuesday night .
Police said the fighting broke out between Croats disappointed by their team 's loss to Brazil and Muslims who had been cheering for Croatia 's opponents .
Police were sent in to try to stop the clashes , and 26 people were detained .
Six police officers were injured and one man suffered serious gunshot wounds .
Although the Bosnian war of the early 1990s is over , Mostar has remained divided between its Muslim and Croat communities who fought each other during the conflict .
British officials are denying a newspaper report that London is urging the United States to set a timetable for withdrawing troops from Iraq .
A spokesman for the office of Prime Minister Tony Blair said Thursday that what is important is not a timetable but to help Iraq while it determines its own future .
He said Britain 's troops will remain in Iraq as long as authorities there want them .
He was responding to a report in London 's Daily Telegraph newspaper , which quoted an unnamed government source as reporting that the Blair administration hopes to have the United States agree to announce a timetable .
The newspaper report said that setting the timetable would be an indication that U.S.-led coalition troops do not intend to stay in Iraq indefinitely .
The report said the announcement would bolster Iraq 's interim government and undermine insurgents in that country .
President Bush has met with Jordan 's King Abdullah at the White House Wednesday .
The president said he and the Jordanian monarch had two good meetings over the past two days , discussing Iraq , Iran and the Palestinian territories .
King Abdullah called the discussions " fruitful , " and said he appreciates Mr. Bush 's desire to promote peace and stability in the Middle East .
The two leaders both rejected the violence triggered by cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad , and at the same time called for all religions to be respected .
U.S. economic troubles are being blamed for rising energy prices , but it is not just the price of oil that is going up .
The average grocery bill is also rising .
Twelve eggs now costs about 30 percent more than they did just a year ago .
And consumer advocates say Americans are not just paying more for some products .
In some cases , they are actually getting less .
VOA 's Mil Arcega reports .
The head of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency says CIA interrogators do not torture prisoners to get information .
CIA Director Porter Goss says in an interview with the USA Today newspaper published Monday that torture does not work .
But Mr. Goss says interrogators use a variety of what he calls " unique and innovative " ways to collect information .
He declined to describe interrogation methods .
Republican Senator John McCain is pushing a proposal that bars the use of cruel , inhuman or degrading treatment of detainees by military or CIA interrogators .
President Bush has threatened to veto any defense spending bill that includes the proposal .
Mr. Goss says the CIA takes a neutral position on Senator McCain 's proposal , adding that some techniques restricted by the measure have yielded valuable intelligence .
Despite a slowdown in the U.S. economy , the amount of goods the United States ships overseas recently increased .
According to the U.S. Department of Commerce , U.S. exports in the second quarter of 2008 expanded at an annualized rate of nine-point-two percent , thanks in large part to a decline in the value of the dollar against other currencies Many U.S. exporters are benefiting from the weak dollar , which makes American goods cheaper abroad , and boosts U.S. firms ' profits when they convert overseas earnings back into dollars .
But as Nathan King reports for VOA , it is not just large global corporations that are benefiting .
Iraqi political parties have been registering their candidates for the December 15 general elections after each of the three main Sunni , Shi'ite and Kurdish communities agreed on separate broad coalitions .
Leaders of the dominant Shi'ite United Iraqi Alliance were the latest to announce that they will stay unified .
The two main Kurdish factions and three groups representing the minority Sunni community had each earlier said they will submit single candidate lists for the polls ahead of Friday 's registration deadline .
The December elections will mark the third major phase in this year 's political process , following the January poll forming the interim government and the October 15 constitutional referendum .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military in Iraq says roadside bombs killed two American soldiers in Baghdad and Ramadi , west of the capital , on Thursday .
Nepalese authorities say they have detained 30 Tibetan exiles who were marching towards the Chinese border to protest the Beijing government .
Authorities said the Tibetans were picked up Sunday in the northeastern village of Jalbire , near the border with China .
The group was transported back to the Nepalese capital Kathmandu .
Tibetans in Nepal have been holding regular demonstrations against the Chinese government since March , when deadly clashes broke out between protesters and Chinese authorities in the Tibetan capital , Lhasa .
About 20,000 Tibetans live in Nepal .
More than 100 of them were detained last week for demonstrating for Tibetan freedom outside the Chinese embassy in Kathmandu .
The U.S.-based group Human Rights Watch has accused China of pressuring Nepal to crack down on the Tibetan protests .
Beijing denies the charge .
Tibetans have complained of discrimination by the Chinese since Beijing took over Tibet nearly 60 years ago .
The Israeli army says Israeli troops have shot dead a Palestinian gunman during a clash in the northern West Bank .
Army officials say Israeli soldiers were conducting a routine patrol early Sunday north of the city of Jenin when they spotted three armed men .
The soldiers opened fire on the group , killing one of them .
There were no Israeli casualties .
Shooting incidents in the northern West Bank have increased in the past two weeks after Israeli troops began raids in the area .
Israel completed a withdrawal from the Gaza Strips and four Jewish settlements in the northern West Bank last month .
Zimbabwe 's ruling party has suspended six senior officials from their posts for five years , exposing an unprecedented power struggle within ZANU-PF .
The state-run Herald newspaper reports the six are also banned from running in key parliamentary elections in March .
The officials , including Energy Minister July Moyo , were initially suspended for six months .
They were accused last month of holding a secret meeting to oppose President Robert Mugabe 's choice of second vice president .
The post , granted to a woman for the first time in Zimbabwe 's history , is seen as a stepping stone for the presidency once Mr. Mugabe retires .
Two other top officials , Information Minister Jonathan Moyo and Justice Minister Patrick Chinamasa , have also been implicated in the power struggle .
Both men have been dropped from the ruling party 's list of candidates in the parliamentary elections .
Iraqi officials say 11 of their soldiers have been killed in a roadside bomb attack north of Baghdad .
The soldiers were killed as they patrolled Saturday , in a town north of the restive city of Baquba .
In a similar attack on Thursday , 10 American Marines were killed and 11 wounded near the western city of Fallujah .
In another development , the U.S. military says Iraqi and U.S. forces captured 18 suspected terrorists during operations Thursday in various parts of north-central Iraq .
Meanwhile , insurgents holding four western peace activists hostage have threatened to kill them unless all detainees in Iraqi and U.S. detention centers are freed by Thursday .
A British Muslim organization has sent a negotiator to Iraq to try to win the hostages ' release .
The United Nations has appealed for $ 265 million in humanitarian aid for Iraqis this year .
The appeal Tuesday is aimed at providing emergency relief in such areas as food , water , education , sanitation , protection , housing and shelter , and health and nutrition .
The U.N. hopes some of the aid will focus on immediate relief for newly displaced people who can not access their food rations .
An estimated 4 million Iraqis are in need of food assistance .
The United Nations humanitarian coordinator for Iraq , David Shearer , says U.N. officials must respond rapidly to people who need support .
The U.N. believes more than 2 million Iraqis have become internally displaced since the start of the Iraq war in 2003 , and another 2 million have fled to Jordan and Syria .
U.S. seismologists say an earthquake with a magnitude of 6.8 has struck Guatemala .
There were no immediate reports of injuries or major damage following the tremor Wednesday .
The U.S. Geological Survey says the epicenter of the quake was near the Pacific coast about 115 kilometers from Guatemala City .
The Vatican has opened its secret archives of the pre-World War Two papacy of Pius XI .
The documents detail the 1922 to 1939 papacy of Pius XI , when his successor - the wartime Pope Pius XII - served as the Vatican 's secretary of state .
For years , the Vatican has defended Pope Pius the XI against claims he did too little to save European Jews from the Holocaust .
There is hope the released records could offer insight into the controversy .
However , the Vatican still has not released the records from Pope Pius the XII 's papacy .
Archive officials say some 50 researchers have come to consult the nearly 30,000 files totaling millions of pages .
Israeli police on Monday said they are recommending that former Prime Minister Ehud Olmert be indicted in connection with a real estate scandal .
Olmert is already on trial for fraud and bribery .
Police suspect Olmert received tens of thousands of dollars in exchange for his support for a large residential development in Jerusalem .
He was then mayor of Jerusalem .
Olmert denies the charges .
The case has shocked Israelis and is one of the biggest corruption scandals in the country 's history .
Police suspect the total amount of money transferred from the project 's initiators to a middleman who mediated between the parties involved , is $ 15 million .
Police have recommended that a former Olmert aide and former Jerusalem Mayor Uri Lupolianski also be indicted .
The lands that today comprise Croatia were part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire until the close of World War I .
In 1918 , the Croats , Serbs , and Slovenes formed a kingdom known after 1929 as Yugoslavia .
Following World War II , Yugoslavia became a federal independent Communist state under the strong hand of Marshal TITO .
Although Croatia declared its independence from Yugoslavia in 1991 , it took four years of sporadic , but often bitter , fighting before occupying Serb armies were mostly cleared from Croatian lands .
Under UN supervision , the last Serb-held enclave in eastern Slavonia was returned to Croatia in 1998 .
In April 2009 , Croatia joined NATO ; it is a candidate for eventual EU accession .
A military power during the 17th century , Sweden has not participated in any war for almost two centuries .
An armed neutrality was preserved in both world wars .
Sweden 's long-successful economic formula of a capitalist system interlarded with substantial welfare elements was challenged in the 1990s by high unemployment and in 2000 - 2 and 2009 by the global economic downturns , but fiscal discipline over the past several years has allowed the country to weather economic vagaries .
Sweden joined the EU in 1995 , but the public rejected the introduction of the euro in a 2003 referendum .
The economy , one of the most stable and prosperous in the Caribbean , is highly dependent on tourism generating an estimated 45 % of the national income .
More than 9,34,000 tourists , mainly from the US , visited the islands in 2008 .
In the mid-1980s , the government began offering offshore registration to companies wishing to incorporate in the islands , and incorporation fees now generate substantial revenues .
Roughly 4,00,000 companies were on the offshore registry by yearend 2000 .
The adoption of a comprehensive insurance law in late 1994 , which provides a blanket of confidentiality with regulated statutory gateways for investigation of criminal offenses , made the British Virgin Islands even more attractive to international business .
Livestock raising is the most important agricultural activity ; poor soils limit the islands ' ability to meet domestic food requirements .
Because of traditionally close links with the US Virgin Islands , the British Virgin Islands has used the US dollar as its currency since 1959 .
Sri Lanka is engaging in large-scale reconstruction and development projects following the end of the 26-year conflict with the LTTE , including increasing electricity access and rebuilding its road and rail network .
Additionally , Sri Lanka seeks to reduce poverty by using a combination of state directed policies and private investment promotion to spur growth in disadvantaged areas , develop small and medium enterprises , and promote increased agriculture .
High levels of government funding may be difficult , as the government already is faced with high debt interest payments , a bloated civil service , and historically high budget deficits .
The 2008 - 9 global financial crisis and recession exposed Sri Lanka 's economic vulnerabilities and nearly caused a balance of payments crisis , which was alleviated by a $ 2.6 billion IMF standby agreement in July 2009 .
The end of the civil war and the IMF loan , however , have largely restored investors ' confidence , reflected in part by the Sri Lankan stock market 's recognition as one of the best performing markets in the world .
Sri Lankan growth rates averaged nearly 5 % in during the war , but increased government spending on development and fighting the LTTE in the final years spurred GDP growth to around 06-Jul % per year in 2006 - 8 .
After experiencing 3.5 % growth in 2009 , Sri Lanka 's economy is poised to achieve high growth rates in the postwar period .
A MAN wished to purchase an Ass , and agreed with its owner that he should try out the animal before he bought him .
He took the Ass home and put him in the straw-yard with his other Asses , upon which the new animal left all the others and at once joined the one that was most idle and the greatest eater of them all .
Seeing this , the man put a halter on him and led him back to his owner .
On being asked how , in so short a time , he could have made a trial of him , he answered , " I do not need a trial ; I know that he will be just the same as the one he chose for his companion . "
A man is known by the company he keeps .
A MIDDLE-AGED MAN , whose hair had begun to turn gray , courted two women at the same time .
One of them was young , and the other well advanced in years .
The elder woman , ashamed to be courted by a man younger than herself , made a point , whenever her admirer visited her , to pull out some portion of his black hairs .
The younger , on the contrary , not wishing to become the wife of an old man , was equally zealous in removing every gray hair she could find .
Thus it came to pass that between them both he very soon found that he had not a hair left on his head .
Those who seek to please everybody please nobody .
Lena once had two chickens .
One of them got terribly sick .
So she killed the other one to make soup to get the first one well again .
John Garang
The Sudan People 's Liberation Movement says funeral services for its late political leader , Sudanese Vice President John Garang , will be held in Juba , the planned capital of an autonomous southern Sudan .
It is unclear when the funeral will be held .
Mr. Garang 's political party says the body of the former rebel leader , who died Saturday evening in a helicopter crash , is lying at New Site in Southern Sudan .
Sudan 's government on Monday declared a night curfew in the capital , Khartoum , to prevent riots that erupted following news of his death .
At least 36 people were killed in the violence .
Mr. Garang was a key figure in the peace accord reached this year between the Sudanese government and southern rebels to end a 21-year civil war .
Sudanese President Omar el-Bashir and General Salva Kiir Mayardit , who was named by the SPLM to succeed Mr. Garang , have stressed that his death will not stop the peace movement .
From the dazzling Opening Ceremonies to the number of gold medals won , China 's Olympic performance has been a source of great national pride .
And any dissent has been quickly silenced .
So it comes as no surprise that Chinese fans at the Beijing Olympics have been boisterous supporters of their national team .
But VOA 's Brian Padden was surprised to learn that many Chinese are also rooting for the Americans .
The U.S. Senate committee considering the nomination of federal Judge Samuel Alito to the U.S. Supreme Court will vote on the matter next week .
The Senate Judiciary Committee was scheduled to hold a final vote on Mr. Alito 's nomination Tuesday , but opposition Democrats demanded a one-week delay - a move that angered Republicans .
Democrats are under pressure to delay the vote as long as possible to build public opposition to Mr. Alito 's nomination .
Liberal interest groups are concerned his presence could tilt the court in a more conservative direction .
Mr. Alito managed to withstand two days of tough questioning from Democrats , and observers say he will easily be confirmed in the Republican-controlled Senate .
NATO said Saturday one of its operations in Afghanistan has resulted in the deaths of two civilians and the wounding of another .
NATO service members discovered a dead woman and two wounded men who had been caught in the crossfire of a gunbattle to secure a compound in the village of Kalachen in Kandahar district , where the alliance force was looking for a Taliban commander .
One of the men later died from his injuries .
The alliance force arrested the Taliban commander and killed one insurgent , while another was wounded .
NATO says the joint security force , along with local elders and government officials , are reviewing the circumstances surrounding the death of the civilians .
Brazil 's health ministry says the country has the world 's highest swine flu death toll .
The health ministry says swine flu has killed 557 people between April and August of this year .
The ministry released its latest report Wednesday based on figures from the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control .
It says the United States ranks next , with 522 fatalities , and Argentina places third with 439 .
Brazil 's government says it wants to free up $ 2 billion to purchase 73 million doses of vaccine to fight the A-H1N1 virus .
Latin America has seen a greater impact from swine flu because it is the winter season in the Southern Hemisphere , when viruses are easily transmitted .
The World Health Organization has declared the swine flu outbreak a pandemic , and says up to two billion people may eventually be infected .
Japan 's Supreme Court has rejected a demand that Japan apologize to and compensate former Korean forced laborers who survived an explosion aboard a Japanese ship at the end of World War II .
The ship , carrying 4,000 Korean laborers and their families , was enroute to what is now South Korea when it exploded and sank off the coast of western Japan in August 1945 .
More than 500 people died .
The Supreme Court Tuesday upheld a lower court ruling that said the Japanese government did not neglect its responsibility when the incident occurred and does not need to apologize .
The United States has denied any rift between Washington and Seoul , after a South Korean official made a statement about North Korea that conflicts with the official U.S. position .
In Washington , a U.S. State Department spokesman emphasized Thursday that the ongoing six-party negotiations on North Korea 's nuclear program are complex .
He indicated that differences in opinion would naturally emerge from talks involving several parties .
In an interview earlier Thursday , South Korean Unification Minister Chung Dong-young said Pyongyang has a general right to pursue a civilian nuclear program .
Washington is firmly opposed to Pyongyang having any nuclear facilities whatsoever .
The six-party talks - involving China , Japan , Russia , the United States and the two Koreas - recessed Sunday after 13 days .
Negotiations are expected to resume the week of August 29 .
Direct charter flights from Taiwan to mainland China have begun for the Lunar New Year holiday season , under an agreement between the diplomatic rivals to temporarily allow non-stop air travel .
A plane with Taiwan 's biggest carrier , China Airlines , arrived in Shanghai Friday from Taipei .
Six airlines from each side will operate 72 flights across the Taiwan Strait .
The service will connect the mainland Chinese cities of Beijing , Shanghai , Guangzhou and Xiamen with Taipei and Kaohsiung on Taiwan until February 7 .
This is the second year that Beijing and Taipei have allowed the holiday flights .
Last year , flights were limited to Taiwan business people living on the mainland .
This year , the flights include Taiwan tourists .
At other times of year , travelers must connect through other airports , usually Hong Kong .
Senator John Kerry and former Senator John Edwards , Democratic running mates in the 2004 Presidential election , have lambasted President Bush for his response to Hurricane Katrina .
Senator Kerry of Massachusetts , the Democratic nominee for President in 2004 , told a university audience Monday that Katrina has exposed a broader pattern of " incompetence and negligence " in the Bush administration .
The Republican National Committee responded to Senator Kerry 's speech by saying the efforts to politicize the tragedy are " unsavory " .
Mr. Edwards criticized a move by President Bush to suspend regulations that set a minimum wage for workers on federal contracts .
Former President Bill Clinton was also critical Sunday , telling television audiences that a disaster plan affecting only middle class and rich people is not workable .
A separatist group fighting Indonesian troops in Aceh has rejected the government 's offer to let rebel leaders run for political office , but only as part of existing political parties .
A Free Aceh Movement spokesman said Friday at peace talks in Helsinki , Finland that if the rebel group agreed to the offer , it would mean the organization was given privileges not available to others in Aceh .
The spokesman says that is not acceptable .
On Thursday , Indonesia 's government proposed that Aceh rebels be allowed to field candidates in existing political parties , but not as a new party .
The proposal would require a change in Indonesian law , which says parties must have representation in at least half of the country 's 32 provinces .
The current round of peace talks is scheduled to end Sunday .
Officials in Belgrade say a local employee of the U.S. Embassy has accidentally crashed into a motorcade in which the president of Serbia , Boris Tadic , was traveling .
Serbian Interior Minister Dragan Jocic said Wednesday that what had been feared to be an assassination attempt turned out to be a traffic offense .
The minister also said the driver , identified as Miroslav Cimpl , became very aggravated while trying to pass the motorcade .
The minister also said that when Mr. Cimpl spotted flashing lights , he panicked and hit the president 's car .
The pro-Western Mr. Tadic was not hurt .
Pro-Western Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic was assassinated last year in front of his office building in Belgrade .
The head of the U.S. government 's hurricane relief effort says it is too soon for residents of New Orleans to return to their storm-ravaged city .
On the Fox News Sunday program , Coast Guard Vice Admiral Thad Allen urged New Orleans ' mayor to " slow down " a plan for city residents to start coming back this week .
In that interview and others with U.S. television networks Sunday , the admiral said officials are still concerned about polluted floodwater , lack of clean drinking water and weakened levees .
Business owners were allowed to return to some parts of New Orleans on Saturday to begin assessing damage and cleaning up .
The number of confirmed deaths from Hurricane Katrina has climbed to nearly 900 , with the majority , 646 , in the state of Louisiana .
Negotiators from the Indonesian government and Aceh-based separatists have begun meeting in Finland for the latest round of peace talks aimed at ending decades of conflict that has taken tens of thousands of lives in the northwestern province .
Finnish mediators are helping the two sides discuss a draft peace proposal in hopes of reaching a deal in the next few weeks .
Officials say the separatists have given up their demand for independence from Indonesia .
There is still disagreement , however , over whether Indonesian troops will withdraw from Aceh , and whether the rebels will be allowed to form their own political party .
Peace talks that stalled in 2003 were re-started after last year 's December 26 tsunami that devastated Aceh and highlighted the need to cooperate on reconstruction efforts .
The director of the Getty Museum in Los Angeles says he is recommending that the museum return to Greece several antiquities that country says were illegally taken abroad .
Greece has demanded the return of four items in particular - a gold wreath , a marble statue of a woman dating to the sixth century BC , a tombstone and a sculpted relief .
A joint statement by museum director Michael Brand and Greek Culture Minister George Voulgarakis did not say which items will be returned .
The Getty Museum has been embroiled in several antiquities smuggling scandals .
Italian authorities have charged former curator Marion TRUE with receiving stolen goods .
Greek authorities also are investigating TRUE .
They raided her vacation home in Greece , where they found dozens of antiquities that had not been registered with the Greek government .
South Africa 's President Thabo Mbeki says former Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide may be able to return home .
Mr. Aristide has lived in exile in South Africa since fleeing a 2004 uprising in Haiti .
But Mr. Mbeki told South African radio Sunday he sees no reason why Haiti 's newly-elected president Rene Preval would oppose Mr. Aristide returning home .
He said he thinks a determination will come after the two men consult about the timing of such a move , so that , in his words , it does not create unnecessary problems .
President-elect Preval and Mr. Aristide were once political allies but broke over the corruption scandal that helped to bring down Mr. Aristide 's presidency .
The head of the U.S. central bank says the bank will strictly enforce new rules to prevent another financial crisis like the one that has disrupted the global economy for the past two years .
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke spoke to the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in Washington on Thursday .
He said the most important lesson of the financial crisis is the need for an orderly way to shut down failing firms that are so big that they could damage the overall financial system if they collapse .
Bernanke also said there is too little evidence to blame low interest rates for the inflated housing prices that played a major role in the crisis .
The commission is nearing the end of a year-long investigation into what caused the financial crisis , and how to prevent a future one .
The White House says U.S. President George Bush will travel to Europe next month to strengthen the trans-Atlantic partnership between the U.S. and European nations .
White House spokeswoman Dana Perino Tuesday said the eight-day trip , beginning June 9 will include stops in Britain , France , Italy , Germany , Slovenia , and the Vatican .
Mr. Bush is scheduled to attend an annual summit between the European Union and the United States , being held this year on June 10 in Slovenia .
Mr. Bush , along with his wife Laura Bush , will also celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Marshall Plan , which provided U.S. reconstruction aid to Europe after World War II .
They also will commemorate the 60th anniversary of the Berlin Airlift , a U.S. operation to bring much-needed supplies into the western half of the divided German city , which was cut off by a Soviet blockade .
Key developing countries say an offer by the United States to cut agricultural subsidies and re-start stalled negotiations on a global free-trade pact is insufficient .
Brazilian Foreign Minister Celso Amorim made the statement to reporters Tuesday in Geneva , following a meeting of ministers of leading developing and industrialized countries .
The discussions came one day after the United States said at talks in Switzerland it is ready to reduce certain agricultural subsidies by 60 percent .
The European Union also proposed cuts in farm supports , while Japan rejected the U.S. offer .
Developing countries say subsidies to farmers in rich nations give these farmers an unfair advantage on world markets .
Diplomats say this week 's discussions may be the last chance to secure the broad outlines of a global trade treaty before a key Hong Kong summit on World Trade in December .
A former detainee of the U.S. military prison at Guantanamo who later rejoined al-Qaida in Yemen has turned himself in to Saudi authorities .
Saudi Arabia 's Interior Ministry says Jabir Jubran al-Fayfi contacted the Saudi government from Yemen to express his readiness to surrender .
The Yemeni government arranged for his return .
Al-Fayfi was released from Guantanamo in 2006 to undergo rehabilitation in Saudi Arabia .
He rejoined al-Qaida after completing the reform program .
Saudi officials say 11 of more than 100 former Guantanamo inmates who finished the rehabilitation program returned to militancy .
The Yemen-based al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula is known for launching attacks on regional and Western targets .
Iraqi Kurdish leader Massoud Barzani says an immediate withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq would worsen the situation in the country .
Speaking at a news conference in Jordan Tuesday , Barzani said he supports a U.S. troop withdrawal , but only when Iraqi security forces and the government have the situation under control .
He said the situation in Iraq is tragic , but would get worse if U.S. troops are pulled out suddenly .
On Monday , Barzani held talks with Jordan 's King Abdullah , who reaffirmed his country 's support for efforts to secure reconciliation between Iraq 's rival groups .
Barzani is president of the semi-autonomous Kurdish region in northern Iraq .
U.S. authorities have charged a man living in New York with relaying programs from Hezbollah television station al-Manar , deemed a global terrorist entity by the U.S. Treasury Department .
Federal prosecutors say Javed Iqbal , also known as John Iqbal , was relaying the Hezbollah-operated station to customers in New York .
Al-Manar is seen as a mouthpiece for the Lebanese Shi'ite group .
U.S. law forbids conducting business with any terror group .
Iqbal faces five years in jail if he is convicted of the charges under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act .
Hezbollah went to war with Israel last month after attacking an Israeli outpost and capturing two of its soldiers .
Al-Manar headquarters in southern Lebanon have been destroyed in the conflict , but the station remains on the air .
Machinists for the U.S. airplane maker Boeing voted to strike Friday , after rejecting a new contract offer .
Union members voted late Thursday to authorize the strike by more than 18,000 workers who manufacture components and assemble planes .
Boeing officials expressed disappointment at the vote .
In a written statement , they said they will not assemble airplanes during the strike .
Earlier , Boeing officials warned a strike would be devastating to the company .
Union leaders had urged members to reject the new contract , saying it failed to meet their demands on health care and pension benefits .
Boeing managers were seeking to cut some benefit costs , which they say have risen sharply in recent years .
Boeing is currently locked in a trade dispute with its European rival Airbus over government subsidies .
Scientists say they have discovered a gene responsible for increasing a person 's likelihood of contracting type 1 diabetes .
In an article published Sunday in the journal Nature , researchers said people with a variation of the gene are as much as 50 percent more likely to suffer from type 1 diabetes .
That sort of diabetes is also called juvenile diabetes because it is often diagnosed in childhood or early adulthood .
Researchers say the ability to forecast a vulnerability to diabetes would allow doctors to intervene in time to lessen its impact on patients .
Type 1 diabetes is an incurable disease in which the body destroys its cells which produce insulin , a hormone that regulates blood glucose .
Those with the disease have a higher risk of heart disease , kidney failure , blindness and other medical problems .
Authorities in Pakistan say unidentified gunmen killed seven people near the Afghan border Thursday .
They say the gunmen opened fire on a vehicle carrying the men near the town of Wana , in the remote tribal region of South Waziristan .
It was not clear who the victims were .
Pakistan has thousands of troops deployed in the region to hunt for al-Qaida and Taleban fighters .
A suicide car bomber has killed four U.S. soldiers outside Baghdad , as coalition forces continue their offensive against insurgents near Syria 's border .
Military officials said the four soldiers were killed in a suicide attack on a checkpoint south of the Iraqi capital Monday .
Meanwhile , coalition forces battled insurgents for a third day in the Iraqi border town of Husaybah , where officials say one Marine and 36 insurgents have died .
Officials say coalition forces have encountered frequent attacks by snipers and discovered homemade bombs in the area .
There are no reports of civilian casualties in the operation aimed at stopping the flow of weapons and foreign fighters from Syria .
Near Baghdad , separate attacks killed 13 people , including six Iraqi police officers .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has replaced his vice president and plans to make at least 12 more Cabinet changes .
He named Ramon Carrizales , a housing minister , to replace Vice President Jorge Rodriguez .
The Cabinet reshuffle comes after Venezuelans rejected constitutional reforms that would have greatly expanded the president 's power .
It was the first electoral defeat for Mr. Chavez in nine years .
The reforms would have allowed Mr. Chavez , who has vowed to transform Venezuela into a socialist state , to seek re-election indefinitely .
The proposals also would have abolished the Central Bank 's independence , limited individual rights under states of emergency and created new forms of community-owned property .
Former Indian Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee has announced his retirement from politics .
The former prime minister made the surprise announcement in Mumbai Thursday at a rally celebrating his Hindu nationalist Bhartiya Janata Party 's 25-year existence .
Mr. Vajpayee stepped down as prime minister in May after the BJP was defeated in national elections in May , 2004 .
The May election prevented Mr. Vajpayee from serving a fourth term as India 's prime minister .
He served as prime minister from 1999 to 2004 and briefly in 1996 and 1998 .
Mr. Vajpayee 's tenure saw India conduct nuclear tests , make strides toward peace with Pakistan and achieve major economic progress .
A grand jury in the U.S. state of Texas has indicted U.S. Congressman Tom DeLay on charges of money laundering and conspiracy .
The indictment announced Monday is the second in less than a week against the former U.S. House Republican majority leader .
Last week , Mr. DeLay was forced to temporarily step down from his powerful leadership position when he was charged with violating a Texas campaign-finance law .
In both indictments , he is accused of conspiring to get around a state ban on corporate campaign contributions by funneling money through the Republican National Committee .
Mr. DeLay has denied the charges .
In a statement released Monday , Mr. DeLay accused the Texas district attorney Ronnie Earle of " prosecutorial abuse , " and called the charges illegitimate and baseless .
If convicted , he could face up to life in prison for money laundering .
Spanish police in raids across the country have arrested 186 people in a crackdown on the distribution of child pornography .
A total of 650 officers took part in the operation that broke up a system that used the Internet to distribute pornographic materials without the need to place them on web pages .
The suspects used a series of pre-arranged passwords to share files directly between computers .
Last month , Spanish police broke up a group of pedophiles who abused and raped children then distributed the images over the Internet .
The top U.S. envoy for arms control says North Korea , Iran and Syria are among the worst proliferators of weapons of mass destruction .
U.S. Undersecretary of State John Bolton told reporters in Tokyo that the three countries are states of proliferation concern .
He called for closer monitoring of shipments to and from such countries .
Mr. Bolton is visiting Tokyo to observe multinational exercises , held under the U.S.-led Proliferation Security Initiative , aimed at training troops from several countries to intercept weapons of mass destruction at sea .
The United States says the drills send a message that the world does not tolerate anyone who tries to traffic weapons of mass destruction .
An Ethiopian official says the first portion of the ancient Axum obelisk will be returned home next week after being taken to Rome 70 years ago .
Ethiopian Culture Minister Teshome Toga told reporters Friday the first section of the obelisk is scheduled to be flown to Ethiopia next Wednesday .
The roughly 24-meter high , 160 - metric ton granite structur , believed to be nearly 2,000-years-old , is too large to be moved in one piece .
The obelisk was taken from taken from the city of Axum in 1937 by order of Italian dictator Benito Mussolini during Italy 's brief occupation of Ethiopia .
The two nations signed an agreement for the return of the structure in 1947 , but " technical difficulties " have delayed its delivery .
California has become the first U.S. state to ban trans fats , a type of unsaturated fat that has been shown to clog arteries .
Doctors are applauding the decision , but some residents complain that the government is interfering with their freedom .
VOA 's Carolyn Presutti takes us to the controversy .
Cuban officials and allies of President Fidel Castro say the aging leader is doing well after undergoing intestinal surgery .
Cuban Vice President Carlos Lage said in Bolivia Sunday that Mr. Castro will recover within a few weeks and will return to his duties .
The 79-year-old Cuban leader underwent surgery last Monday to stop intestinal bleeding .
The government says the president handed power to his brother , Raul , who has not been seen in public since the political shift .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez , a close political ally to Mr. Castro , said Sunday he had learned the Cuban leader was able to get out of bed and hold conversations .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said Sunday Washington encourages democratic change in Cuba , but would not stir up a political crisis while Mr. Castro remains ill .
British authorities have increased security measures following intelligence that terrorists could be planning to attack major transportation hubs .
British transport police cancelled leave and called in extra officers .
But officials say the overall threat level has not changed , and there is no suggestion of an imminent attack .
The heightened security steps come after two terrorist plots were linked to Britain in the past few weeks .
A Swedish citizen , who had lived in Britain for the past 10 years , blew himself up in mid-December in Stockholm , wounding two other people .
At the end of December , British police arrested 12 men from around the country , suspected of plotting a terrorist attack in Britain .
An artist from Argentina is preparing to showcase her work at the Embassy of Argentina in Washington later this month .
The show is just the latest step in an artistic career that began as a teenager .
VOA 's Sahar Sepehri introduces us to Evangelina Elizondo , an artist making a name for herself in the international world of art .
Iran 's state news agency says an Iranian fighter jet has crashed into the Oman Sea off the country 's southeastern coast .
Iran says the F-4 Phantom jet crashed at 12.45 p.m. local time ( 915 UTC ) Monday in waters near the Iranian port city of Konarak .
There was no word on the fate of the pilot or the cause of the crash .
Many of the warplanes in Iran 's air force are aging U.S.-built jets such as the F-4 that Iran bought before its Islamic Revolution in 1979 .
U.S. sanctions imposed on Iran after the revolution have made it hard for Tehran to buy spare parts for its military and civilian aircraft .
Iran 's air force also has Russian-made Sukhoi warplanes and recently conducted test flights on two domestically-produced fighter jets .
The U.S. Senate has begun debate on two proposals calling on President Bush to establish a strategy that will lead to the withdrawal of U.S. forces from Iraq .
The proposals , introduced by both Democrats and Republicans , call for Mr. Bush to inform Congress and the American people every three months how he plans to achieve the successful completion of the U.S. mission in Iraq .
But the two sides disagree on whether to set a timetable for the withdrawal of U.S. forces .
Democrats want the administration to give estimated dates on withdrawal , as long as certain conditions are met , while Republicans say setting any timetable would embolden the terrorists .
Votes on the proposals are expected Tuesday .
Iraq says it will prosecute Saddam Hussein on 12 well-documented criminal charges , drawn from a list of 500 criminal counts that authorities had considered filing against the jailed ex-dictator .
Speaking in Baghdad on Sunday a government spokesman also repeated a government prediction that Saddam will go on trial within two months .
No trial date has been set .
Saddam is widely expected to face genocide charges for allegedly ordering the 1988 chemical attack on the Kurdish village of Halabja that killed five thousand people .
Other charges are expected for the 1990 invasion of Kuwait and for the deadly suppression of Shi'ite muslims that began a year later in southern Iraq .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says it has seized a vast underground insurgent hideout in western Iraq .
Authorities say the complex includes fully furnished living spaces , fresh food and a massive munitions cache .
The United Nations weather agency says 2010 is set to be one of the three warmest years on record , and possibly the warmest ever .
The World Meteorological Organization says the past 10 years , 2001 - 2010 , have also set a new record for the warmest decade , with the highest worldwide temperatures since records began in 1850 .
The WMO released the data Thursday at U.N. climate change talks in Cancun , Mexico .
Figures for November and December will be factored in early next year .
Iraqi election officials say it is too early to suspect problems during Saturday 's constitutional referendum , as workers continue to review ballots .
Officials say workers are still auditing results for about 12 Shi'ite and Kurdish areas which reported unusually high totals of " yes " votes .
Those regions were expected to support the constitution .
Election officials say a final vote count may be ready by Friday or Saturday .
At least one predominantly Sunni Arab province , Salaheddin , appeared to have voted against the constitution .
The draft will fail if three provinces vote against it .
Some Sunni Arab leaders have alleged fraud in Saturday 's vote .
Meanwhile , Iraqi police said gunmen in Ramadi killed the deputy governor of Anbar province , Talib al-Dulaimi , on Tuesday .
And U.S. military officials said one soldier died in a gun battle in Mosul .
Iraqi police say car bomb attacks at churches in Baghdad and Kirkuk have killed at least three people and wounded several others .
They say the cars exploded at nearly the same time outside two churches in Kirkuk and four in Baghdad .
The blasts came shortly after Iraqi authorities adjourned the trial of ousted dictator Saddam Hussein until at least Wednesday .
Saddam and some co-defendants were thrown out of court Sunday , after Saddam 's co-defendant half-brother cursed the court and was then dragged away by guards .
Several defense lawyers walked out in protest .
The former Iraqi leader and seven co-defendants are accused of killing more than 140 people in the town of Dujail in 1982 after a failed assassination attempt .
Elsewhere , a suicide car bomber killed four Iraqi soldiers near Saddam 's hometown of Tikrit .
Another insurgent attack killed 10 people south of Baghdad .
Uganda says it will send an additional 250 soldiers to Somalia to train forces loyal to the Somali interim government .
Ugandan defense officials announced the move to parliament on Wednesday .
They said the training is part of the mandate of the African Union peacekeeping mission in Somalia .
The AU has promised 8,000 peacekeepers for the war-ravaged country .
But so far , only Uganda has sent troops .
Those 1500 troops have largely stayed out of the Somali capital 's chronic violence , focusing on protecting the airport , seaport , and presidential palace .
Witnesses in the Somali capital say a landmine explosion in northern Mogadishu Thursday , killed two policemen and wounded three other people .
The 250 soldiers will increase Uganda 's contingent in Somalia to 1750 troops .
Ugandan officials said the new troops will deploy as soon as the Somali government works out the logistics for their stay .
Up to two million people evacuated the city of New Orleans and surrounding areas in advance of Hurricane Gustav , which was not nearly as severe as Hurricane Katrina three years earlier .
VOA 's Barry Wood in New Orleans tells us about a French Quarter hotel that for traveling journalists provided welcome shelter from the storm .
The British government reports that more than 4,00,000 workers from Eastern Europe have come to work in Britain since 10 new members joined the European Union in 2004 .
Figures published by the British Home Office Tuesday show the government admitted 4,27,000 workers from the 80 formerly communist-ruled new EU member nations .
If self-employed workers are included , that figure may be as high as 6,00,000 .
Poles make up the majority of the registered immigrant workers in Britain , followed by Lithuanians and Slovaks .
Poland has the bloc 's highest unemployment rate .
The immigration figures have triggered debate in Britain over foreign labor .
Some politicians have called for additional restrictions on immigration ahead of the EU decision whether to admit Bulgaria and Romania in 2007 .
The countries that gained EU membership in 2004 are Cyprus , the Czech Republic , Estonia , Hungary , Latvia , Lithuania , Malta , Poland , Slovakia and Slovenia .
Witnesses say an Israeli drone aircraft fired a missile into a car near a Gaza refugee camp Tuesday , but they say the passengers escaped unharmed .
Israel says the strike near Khan Younis targeted two Palestinian militants wanted in connection with a series of mortar attacks on nearby Jewish settlements .
The Khan Younis camp in southern Gaza is a stronghold of militants who often target Jewish settlements with homemade rockets and mortars .
Israel has raided the camp repeatedly to kill or capture militants , and frequently destroys Khan Younis homes linked to such suspects .
Israel has killed scores of Palestinian militants in targeted attacks since the Palestinian uprising ( intifada ) erupted more than four years ago
Jordan 's King Abdullah has postponed a peace mission to Israel and the Palestinian territories because of a flare-up in factional fighting in the Gaza Strip .
Speaking Monday in Amman , a spokesman for the king said the current security situation in Gaza is not conducive to the visit .
Hours earlier , Palestinian lawmakers voted to urge Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas to fire his cabinet for failing to stop fighting between Hamas militants and police .
The bill also demands that Mr. Abbas form a new government within two weeks or face a no-confidence vote .
The vote came a short while after several dozen Palestinian police stormed the Palestinian parliament building in Gaza City to press demands for a security crackdown on Hamas .
Sunday , three Palestinians were killed and at least 50 others wounded in gunbattles between Hamas militants and police .
Turkey 's Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul says he remains a candidate for president - despite opposition from secularists .
Gul told reporters Friday his candidacy will has not been derailed by the political crisis his nomination by the ruling A.K. ( Justice and Development ) party sparked .
Gul withdrew his candidacy from consideration from parliament after he failed to gain enough support .
Thursday , Turkey 's parliament approved a set of constitutional amendments that would allow the president to be elected by a popular vote , instead of by parliament .
President Ahmet Necdet Sezer must sign the amendments before they can become law .
The ruling party proposed the electoral reform package and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan called early legislative elections ( July 22 ) after parliament failed to elect a president .
Secularists opposed Gul 's candidacy and accused the Islamist-rooted A.K. Party of attempting to undermine Turkey 's secular order .
Authorities in Colombia have killed two soldiers and wounded six others after they mistook them for leftist rebels .
Police say the incident occurred Thursday in the village of Chipaque south of the capital , Bogota .
They say military police rushed to the town after receiving information that rebels of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , or FARC , were planning to blow up electricity towers in the area .
A firefight broke out when an army patrol arrived at the scene at the same time to investigate a separate report about the FARC .
Authorities say the incident is under investigation .
The FARC , along with a smaller leftist rebel group and rightist paramilitaries , is involved in a long-running war with the government in Colombia .
The conflict leaves thousands of people dead each year .
World leaders have praised Iraq 's national election as a triumph for the Iraqi people .
In Europe and Russia , several leaders who opposed the war joined the United States in declaring the vote a success .
French President Jacques Chirac told President Bush by phone Monday the elections are an important stage in Iraq 's reconstruction .
German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer said Iraqis deserve great recognition for heading to the polls despite the danger .
But he reaffirmed Germany 's refusal to send troops to the country .
Russia 's President Putin called the vote a historic event .
Praise also came from Asian countries , including China , which said it hopes the vote brings stability to Iraq .
President Bush and Britain 's Prime Minister Tony Blair hailed the election Sunday , calling it a blow to terrorism .
A public opinion poll indicates that nearly nine out of 10 Israelis believe their country 's offensive against Hezbollah guerrillas in Lebanon is justified .
The survey published Tuesday in the Israeli newspaper Yedioth Ahronoth ( " Latest News " ) found that 81 percent of those polled think the offensive should continue .
Nearly 60 percent said the offensive should continue until Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah is killed .
Only 17 percent said Israel should stop the attacks and start negotiations .
The poll also showed that Israelis are largely satisfied with Prime Minister Ehud Olmert 's response to the crisis .
Nearly 80 percent said that Mr. Olmert 's job performance was either very good or fairly good .
Top officials of the U.S. central bank are expected to hold interest rates steady when they gather at a key policymaking meeting Tuesday and Wednesday in Washington .
The U.S. Federal Reserve has cut interest rates several times recently to bolster economic growth that has been hurt by the faltering housing market , tight credit , and other problems .
But economists say cutting rates too low can spark inflation , which is a growing threat as oil prices soar to ever higher record levels .
Experts interviewed by news organizations , like Bloomberg and Reuters , say the Fed will probably keep interest rates unchanged for a while , but raise them later this year .
U.S. officials in Iraq say two American civilians have been killed and a third wounded in a roadside bomb blast south of Baghdad .
The U.S. Embassy says the victims , who worked for a private security firm protecting U.S. diplomats , came under attack Saturday on the main road to Hilla .
Meanwhile , there are reports that talks among Iraq 's leading parties on forming a new government are stalled .
Sources close to the talks say leaders of the Kurdish alliance 's two factions were still debating Sunday a draft deal reached last week with the Shi'ite-dominated United Iraqi Alliance .
The two camps are supposed to announce an agreement on a new government Monday - two days before the Iraqi National Assembly convenes for the first time since January elections .
The United States is urging Uzbekistan to give fair and humane treatment to a journalist recently arrested for violating the Uzbek constitution .
State Department spokesman Adam Ereli says the United States is closely following the case of Sabirjon Yakubov , who was arrested April 11th .
Mr. Ereli says Uzbek authorities have harassed other journalists in the past to limit publications of critical stories .
Mr. Yakubov , who works for the Hurriyat ( Freedom ) weekly , faces a 20 year prison sentence .
He has recently written articles about Islam and political reforms , as well as the " Orange Revolution " in the Ukraine .
The New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists says that if Mr. Yakubov is being held for expressing his religious and political beliefs he should be freed immediately .
MTV Networks has launched its first music video channel for Africa .
The new 24-hour channel , called MTV Base , is broadcast on satellite television , available to 1.3 million homes across Africa .
MTV says it also hopes to sell blocks of broadcast time to local stations so it can reach more people .
MTV says about 30 percent of the music played on the channel will be African - such as South Africa 's popular kwaito music , a derivative of hip-hop , or mbalax - music from West Africa made famous by Senegalese artist , Youssou N'Dour .
MTV Base is the network 's 100th channel and its final global outpost .
MTV has already launched stations in North America , Europe , Latin America , and Asia .
French President Jacques Chirac says he is opposed to any international sanctions against a Palestinian government formed by the militant group Hamas .
Speaking to reporters Monday on the final day of a visit to Saudi Arabia , Mr. Chirac said he was aware of calls for cutting off aid to a Hamas-led government because of the group 's refusal to renounce violence against Israel .
But he said imposing sanctions would mostly hurt the Palestinian people .
Hamas won a landslide election victory in January , prompting Israel , the United States and the European Union - which includes France - to threaten to stop funding unless the Islamic militant group recognize Israel and stop its militants from attacking the Jewish state .
France often presents itself as supporting Arab causes , while many Arabs regard the United States as biased toward Israel .
Cuban President Fidel Castro has walked for the first time in public since suffering a damaging fall two months ago .
Mr. Castro , assisted by a young school girl , received a standing ovation Thursday as he walked into the year-end session of the National Assembly .
The Associated Press reports he walked slowly and a bit stiffly as he took his seat on stage at Havana 's Convention Palace .
The 78-year-old Cuban leader stumbled and fell in October after making a speech , shattering his knee and fracturing an arm .
In November , Mr. Castro surprised many when he stood up from his wheelchair to receive Chinese President Hu Jintao , who was on a state visit .
A study by the South African Medical Research Council has found that women in abusive relationships are more likely to become infected with HIV .
Researchers say that South African women in unequal relationships had a higher rate of HIV infection compared to women who had more equality in their relationships .
Researchers also say that addressing inequalities in relationships could prevent nearly 14 percent of new HIV infections .
Nearly 12 percent of new infections could be prevented if women were not physically or sexually abused by their partners .
The South African Medical Research Council is calling on the World Health Organization and other groups to develop and widely implement policies and programs that build gender equality and prevent domestic violence .
Algerian state television says a suicide bomb attack has killed about 15 people and wounded more than 70 others .
Security officials say the attack occurred Thursday in the eastern town of Batna - shortly before President Abdelaziz Bouteflika was scheduled to visit .
Witnesses say the bomber was among a crowd of people waiting to see Mr. Bouteflika .
The Algerian president later visited some of the wounded at a local hospital .
He condemned those who carried out the attack as " criminals " and said Algeria was committed to achieving national reconciliation .
Al-Qaida 's North African branch has claimed responsibility for several recent attacks in Algeria .
Islamic militants have been fighting in Algeria since 1992 .
Violence has largely subsided in recent years , but the group al-Qaida Organization in the Islamic Maghreb continues to fight .
President Bush is seeking public support for his economic agenda , urging Congress to pass his proposed budget and reforms to the Social Security retirement program .
Speaking in the midwestern city of Detroit Tuesday , Mr. Bush said his $ 2.5-trillion budget maintains discipline on spending while enabling the military and Homeland Security Department to protect Americans .
About Social Security , he said younger workers should be allowed to divert part of their taxes into private accounts that they could invest for a possibly higher return .
The speech was part of the president 's effort to promote his plans , in the face of opposition from Democrats .
Opponents have called Mr. Bush 's budget " irresponsible , " noting that it does not take into account costs for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan .
The Democrats have likened Mr. Bush 's Social Security plan to a form of roulette ( gambling ) .
Somali pirates have released a Taiwanese ship that they seized off the coast of Somalia more than five months ago .
Taiwanese officials say the vessel , Chung Yi 218 , has safely set sail from Somali waters .
It is not clear how many crew members are on board , and if a deal was made to secure the ship 's release .
The vessel was one of three Taiwanese ships held by Somali gunmen since August .
The pirates had demanded a ransom of $ 5,00,000 for each boat and its crew .
The other two vessels are reported still being held .
Pirates have attacked many ships off the Somali coast , including a United Nations World Food Program vessel hijacked last year .
Somalia has been without an effective central government since 1991 .
Condoleezza Rice ( l ) and Chinese Prime Minister Wen Jiabao The subjects of North Korea and Taiwan dominated meetings in Beijing Sunday between top Chinese leaders and U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice .
The French news agency quotes Ms. Rice as telling President Hu Jintao she hopes Beijing will intensify efforts to get North Korea to resume talks on its nuclear program in a constructive manner .
Mr. Hu said China is committed to resolving the issue .
Prime Minister Wen Jiabao and Ms. Rice also met and expressed their mutual desire to enhance Chinese-U.S. relations .
The prime minister told Ms. Rice China 's new anti-secession law is meant to contain forces on Taiwan seeking independence .
While on her Asia tour , Ms. Rice said the European government would be acting irresponsibly if they sell weapons to China that might be used against U.S. forces in the Pacific .
The United Nations World Food Program ( WFP ) says Burma 's military government has placed restrictions on food deliveries as it cracks down on mass protests throughout the country .
The U.N. agency on Friday expressed concern that the government 's actions could block efforts to feed some 5,00,000 people in the impoverished Southeast Asian country .
According to the agency , Burmese authorities have stopped all movement of food out of the country 's second-largest city , Mandalay , which will affect deliveries in northern Shan State .
Unrest also has stopped food delivery in the port city of Sittwe , disrupting the World Food Program 's operations in north Rakhine State .
The U.N. agency says it is appealing to authorities for access to all parts of the country , to protect children , as well as HIV and tuberculosis patients .
Former Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulija Tymoshenko says she is breaking with President Viktor Yushchenko following his decision to dismiss her government .
Ms. Tymoshenko said Friday she is no longer a member of Mr. Yushchenko 's political team , but stopped short of calling herself an opponent .
The former prime minister said she and her followers plan to run for office separately in next year 's parliamentary elections .
Mr. Yushchenko dismissed the government Thursday , amid allegations of corruption and reports of infighting between the prime minister and Petro Poroshenko , another senior official .
The president has named senior regional official Yuri Yekhanurov prime minister .
Ms. Tymoshenko was a key figure during Ukraine 's Orange Revolution that swept the president into power last year .
She blamed presidential advisors , rather than Mr. Yushchenko himself , for her firing .
Ivory Coast has reported its first outbreaks of the deadly H5N1 strain of birdflu .
The Paris-based World Organization for Animal Health says tests have confirmed the presence of the virus in birds from two outbreaks in Abidjan .
The H5N1 strain was detected in seven chickens , nine ducks and one sparrowhawk .
The virus has been confirmed in five other African nations - Burkina Faso , Cameroon , Egypt , Niger and Nigeria .
Earlier this week , a minister from the southern African country of Malawi told a 19-nation bird flu conference that Africa is not prepared to fight bird flu .
A United Nations official at the same conference said poverty and inadequate medical and veterinary services make Africa vulnerable to the disease .
Bird flu has killed more than 113 people worldwide since 2003 , mostly in Asia .
Many members of Iraq 's national football ( soccer ) team were scheduled to leave Iraq Saturday - just one day after ceremonies honoring them for their win last week at the Asian Cup championship in Jakarta .
Some players have contracts with teams outside Iraq and live abroad .
The Iraqi team has not played at home for 17 years due to fears of violence since the start of the 2003 U.S. invasion and to international sanctions against Saddam Hussein 's regime before that .
The team practices in Jordan .
On Friday , Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki welcomed Iraq 's national team to celebrations in Baghdad 's heavily fortified Green Zone .
Most Baghdad residents were barred from the celebration because of security concerns .
Iraq defeated Saudi Arabia 1-0 in the Asian Cup final , sparking a rare moment of national jubilation .
The European Union is hopeful U.S. President Barack Obama 's message to Iran can help thaw relations between Tehran and much of the world .
EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana said in Brussels Friday that the broadcast appeal could help open " a new chapter " for relations with Iran .
Solana also called Mr. Obama 's attempt to reach out to Iran constructive .
Like the United States , the EU accuses Iran of trying to develop nuclear weapons and has imposed a series of sanctions on Tehran .
Last month , German Chancellor Angela Merkel threatened to impose additional sanctions on Iran if talks do not work .
New White House budget figures show a program to help seniors pay for prescription drugs will cost the government some $ 320 billion more than projected .
Figures released late Tuesday raised the estimate of the program 's cost to $ 720 billion over the next decade .
That is nearly twice the $ 400 billion estimate President Bush offered in 2003 , before Congress added the prescription drug benefit to the government 's Medicare medical insurance program .
The increased cost is likely to draw criticism from lawmakers concerned about the soaring U.S. budget deficit .
Speaking with reporters at the White House Wednesday , Mr. Bush said Medicare has " unfunded liabilities " that he and Congress will have to deal with after fixing the Social Security retirement program .
The United Nations says it has placed U.N. disaster teams around the world on alert and told them they are ready to be deployed to the U.S. Gulf Coast .
A U.N. spokesman in Geneva Friday said members of its U.N. Disaster Assessment and Coordination Center specializing in natural disasters are ready to help the United States deal with the devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina , if requested by Washington .
He said the world body 's various agencies - including the World Health Organization , UNICEF , the World Food Program and the U.N. refugee agency - are meeting Friday in New York to put together an offer of logistical support .
The U.N. announcement comes several hours after Secretary-General Kofi Annan said America has always been generous in responding to disasters around the globe , and urged the international community to offer assistance to the devastated communities along the U.S. Gulf Coast .
Burmese officials have blamed local dissident student groups , working with western governments , for Friday 's bomb blast at a luxury hotel in Rangoon .
Officials held a rare news conference in the capital city Sunday to denounce the attack .
They released a statement that alleged several groups , including the All Burma Students Democratic Front , the Karen National Union , and the Vigorous Burmese Student Warriors were behind the small blast outside the Traders Hotel , that did little damage and caused no injuries .
The Burmese Information Minister Brigadier General Kyaw Hsann also said authorities had thwarted a separate major bomb attack .
Officials have not mentioned any arrests in the alleged bomb plots .
Burma 's tightly-guarded capital has seen a number of explosions in recent months .
The government regularly blames exile groups that oppose military rule .
Some dissidents say the blasts are carried out by government-linked groups to justify tighter security .
Activists from an alliance of five political parties in Nepal say they will hold a second round of protests Monday against King Gyanendra 's assumption of absolute power .
A spokesman for the alliance said Sunday the nationwide rallies will go ahead despite the king 's ban on demonstrations .
Last Tuesday , political parties organized street protests to pressure the king to restore democracy in Nepal .
Police arrested dozens of people , including former government ministers and former lawmakers .
Sunday , police in Kathmandu arrested three students for shouting anti-monarchy slogans .
King Gyanendra dismissed the government , imposed a state of emergency and suspended civil liberties on February 1 .
He said his move was prompted by the government 's failure to contain a Maoist rebellion , which has killed thousands of people since 1996 .
NATO says two civilians have been killed and at least 10 others wounded in a fuel truck explosion in eastern Afghanistan .
A NATO statement says Thursday 's blast in Nangarhar province also damaged nearby shops and vehicles , and that the explosion was likely triggered by an improvised explosive device .
In neighboring Logar province , NATO says coalition forces killed 12 Taliban insurgents , including a commander during an operation on Wednesday .
Another three insurgents were killed while Afghan and coalition forces were pursuing commanders of the insurgent group Jama'at ul Dawa al-Qu'ran in northeastern Kunar province .
The group is linked to attacks that killed two U.S. service members .
And the alliance says eight coalition members were injured Thursday after a NATO helicopter made a hard landing in southern Kandahar province .
NATO says based on initial reports , the incident was not a result of enemy fire .
Colombian authorities say they have dismantled a FALSE passport ring with links to al-Qaida and the Islamic militant group Hamas , and arrested 19 people in connection with the case .
Prosecutors said Thursday three members of the state intelligence agency known as DAS , were among those arrested , and that one of them is among eight people sought by the United States for extradition .
Officials also say a member of Colombia 's National Registry , which provides official identification documents , was arrested in the sweep .
Authorities say the arrests follow an investigation that began in 2002 .
Local media reports say the passport-forging ring enabled foreign nationals to travel as Colombians to Europe and the United States .
The reports say the suspects sent the forged passports to citizens of Pakistan , Jordan , Iraq and Egypt , who never actually set foot in Colombia .
Palestinian witnesses say Israeli troops shot and killed two Palestinian civilians in separate incidents in the West Bank and Gaza Strip Tuesday .
They say soldiers shot dead a Palestinian bystander during a clash with militants in Nablus .
Several Palestinians and two soldiers were wounded in the clash that erupted when Israeli troops raided the Palestinian city .
Israeli forces regularly mount raids into West Bank towns to arrest wanted Palestinians .
In the Gaza Strip , witnesses say a Palestinian farmer was killed when Israeli forces fired tank or artillery shells into the territory .
Members of the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee say confirmation hearings for Supreme Court nominee Harriet Miers will begin November 7 .
The announcement Wednesday comes a little more than two weeks after President Bush nominated Ms. Miers to take over the Supreme Court seat left vacant by the retirement of Justice Sandra Day O'Connor .
Mr. Bush has drawn fire from fellow Republicans for the nomination of Ms. Miers , the current White House Counsel .
Some want the president to withdraw her nomination and pick a known conservative who would decisively shift the high court to the right .
Ms. Miers has not made her positions on contentious issues like abortion and gay marriage publicly known since her nomination .
Indian search teams have recovered at least 50 bodies in the eastern state of West Bengal where an overcrowded ferry capsized .
Officials say more than 100 people were on the ferry when it overturned Saturday in a turbulent river near the Bay of Bengal .
Dozens of passengers have been rescued , but others are still missing .
Officials say most of the passengers were Muslims returning to the town of Kakdwip after attending a religious festival .
Authorities say the boat 's maximum capacity was 60 people .
Boating accidents are common in India , where vessels are often overloaded and safety standards are poor .
Iraqi authorities say a suicide bomber killed four policemen in Baghdad and gunmen killed at least 11 other Iraqis in another town Thursday .
Police say the gunmen killed the 11 men and women in Latifiyah .
They believe the victims were members of an extended Shi'ite family .
To the north , in Baghdad , the suicide bomber blew himself up outside Iraq 's Interior Ministry .
In a separate attack in the capital , a roadside bomb killed a U.S. soldier .
U.S. Brigadier General Donald Alston said Thursday that U.S. forces expected insurgent attacks to increase after security measures imposed for Iraq 's elections were lifted .
Meanwhile , al-Qaida in Iraq posted video footage on the Internet it says shows five Sudanese nationals , including a diplomat , abducted in Baghdad .
The group threatened to kill the five unless Sudan cuts ties with Iraq .
The chief of the Polisario rebels in Western Sahara has asked the African Union for help securing the release of prisoners held by Morocco .
According to Algeria 's APS news agency , Mohamed Abdelaziz , secretary-general of the Polisario Front , wrote to the current chairman of the African Union , Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo , asking him to intercede with Morocco .
Mr. Abdelaziz said it was unfair that Morocco was still holding the prisoners , even after the Polisario Front released hundreds of Moroccan soldiers this month .
The letter said Morocco was holding 37 political prisoners and 151 prisoners of war .
It said that some 500 people were missing .
Rebels battled Moroccan troops over control of Western Sahara for 16 years , following the withdrawal of colonial power Spain .
In 1991 , the United Nations brokered a cease-fire to end fighting .
Bolivia 's new president has cut top officials ' salaries by half and says the savings will be used for education and health programs .
Evo Morales fulfilled his campaign promise to cut salaries after a cabinet meeting late Thursday .
He announced a 57 percent pay cut for himself , to about $ 1,800 ( U.S. ) a month .
He reduced his ministers ' salaries by half and decreed that no public official can make more than the president .
During his campaign , Mr. Morales promised a more austere budget for Bolivia , South America 's poorest country .
The coca farmer and workers ' rights activist was elected by a landslide in December .
He is Bolivia 's first ethnically indigenous president .
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas has urged international donors to keep aid flowing following last week 's election victory by the militant group Hamas .
Mr. Abbas , who is not a member of Hamas , says the Palestinians will stick to their agreements with Israel .
He spoke alongside German Chancellor Angela Merkel after talks Monday in Ramallah .
Ms. Merkel stressed her previous demand that Hamas renounce violence and accept Israel 's right to exist .
EU foreign ministers say Hamas must take those two steps to ensure aid is not suspended .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice made a similar demand Sunday .
In London , members of the so-called Middle East quartet - the U.S. , Russia , the EU and the United Nations - are meeting for talks on how to deal with a Hamas-led Palestinian government .
Burma 's state media are hailing the capture of a rare , white elephant as a sign the country will enjoy peace , stability and prosperity under a new , elected government , as the media say it does under present military rule .
The official New Light of Myanmar newspaper said Saturday that the elephant , captured Thursday in western Rakhine state , is a source of national pride .
The paper said the pachyderm is estimated to be 18 years old and is the fifth white elephant captured since 2001 .
Burma has been under harsh military rule since 1962 and elections scheduled for November have been widely criticized by the international community as a sham to keep the military in power .
Police in Mauritania say security forces have arrested the leaders of a terrorist cell with alleged links to al-Qaida .
The detainees are said to be prominent leaders in the guerrilla group , Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat .
A statement from the national police says seven people were arrested earlier this week as they returned from the group 's training camp in Algeria .
The detainees are said to be among a total of 20 guerrillas who were sent to the camp for training .
A top U.S. general says the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is presenting challenges to the U.S. ability to advance its interests in the Middle East .
General David Petraeus , head of the U.S. Central Command , says the conflict foments anti-American sentiment in the region due to a perception of U.S. favoritism toward Israel .
The U.S. Central Command oversees American forces in the Middle East and Central Asia .
Petraeus 's comments to a Senate committee Tuesday came amid a U.S.-Israeli dispute about Israel 's plan to build 1,600 more housing units in disputed East Jerusalem .
Peace talks between Israelis and Palestinians have been stalled for more than a year primarily because of the construction of Jewish settlements .
World oil prices hit record highs for the fifth day in a row Friday .
The price of crude oil for future delivery reached $ 66.15 a barrel in New York trading .
Prices are up six percent this week and have more than doubled since the end of 2003 .
Analysts blame the latest increases on strong demand for oil , a spate of refinery problems , and worries that Middle East tensions could crimp crude oil supplies .
Soaring prices for imported oil also boosted the U.S. trade deficit six percent in June .
Friday 's report from the Commerce Department says the gap between what Americans sell abroad and what they buy reached $ 58.8 billion .
The politically sensitive U.S. trade deficit with China rose to a record $ 17.6 billion .
Colombia 's former president , Andres Pastrana , has been named the country 's next ambassador to the United States .
Mr. Pastrana , a lawyer and former television journalist , is replacing Luis Alberto Moreno .
Mr. Pastrana led Colombia from 1998 to 2002 , but has spent the past several years living in Spain .
His main objectives as ambassador to the United States will include promoting " Plan Colombia " - a U.S. sponsored anti-cocaine initiative .
Over the past three years , the United States has spent more than $ 3 billion to help eradicate coca production in Colombia .
Critics of the plan say it has done little to combat drug trafficking or stem Colombia 's drug-fueled civil war .
The United Nations Human Rights Council has ordered a commission of inquiry to investigate alleged abuses by Israel in its campaign against Hezbollah in Lebanon .
Council members Friday voted 27-Nov in support of the inquiry at a special session in Geneva .
The 57-member Organization of the Islamic Conference requested the session and proposed the resolution that singled out Israel for condemnation and avoided any criticism of Hezbollah .
Earlier Friday , the U.N. human rights chief urged the Council to take account of Hezbollah 's actions - in addition to Israel .
Louise Arbour said Israeli attacks affecting civilians continue unabated , but she also deplored Hezbollah 's " indiscriminate shelling of densely populated centers in northern Israel . "
And she noted repeated allegations of Hezbollah 's use of human shields .
Western Sahara has a small market-based economy whose main industries are fishing , phosphate mining , and pastoral nomadism .
The territory 's arid desert climate makes sedentary agriculture difficult , and Western Sahara imports much of its food .
The Moroccan Government administers Western Sahara 's economy and is a source of employment , infrastructure development , and social spending in the territory .
Western Sahara 's unresolved legal status makes the exploitation of its natural resources a contentious issue between Morocco and the Polisario .
Morocco and the EU in July 2006 signed a four-year agreement allowing European vessels to fish off the coast of Morocco , including the disputed waters off the coast of Western Sahara .
Oil has never been found in Western Sahara in commercially significant quantities , but Morocco and the Polisario have quarreled over who has the right to authorize and benefit from oil exploration in the territory .
Western Sahara 's main long-term economic challenge is the development of a more diverse set of industries capable of providing greater employment and income to the territory .
Since 1962 , when France stationed military personnel in the region , French Polynesia has changed from a subsistence agricultural economy to one in which a high proportion of the work force is either employed by the military or supports the tourist industry .
With the halt of French nuclear testing in 1996 , the military contribution to the economy fell sharply .
Tourism accounts for about one-fourth of GDP and is a primary source of hard currency earnings .
Other sources of income are pearl farming and deep-sea commercial fishing .
The small manufacturing sector primarily processes agricultural products .
The territory benefits substantially from development agreements with France aimed principally at creating new businesses and strengthening social services .
Argentina benefits from rich natural resources , a highly literate population , an export-oriented agricultural sector , and a diversified industrial base .
Although one of the world 's wealthiest countries 100 years ago , Argentina suffered during most of the 20th century from recurring economic crises , persistent fiscal and current account deficits , high inflation , mounting external debt , and capital flight .
A severe depression , growing public and external indebtedness , and a bank run culminated in 2001 in the most serious economic , social , and political crisis in the country 's turbulent history .
Interim President Adolfo RODRIGUEZ SAA declared a default - the largest in history - on the government 's foreign debt in December of that year , and abruptly resigned only a few days after taking office .
His successor , Eduardo DUHALDE , announced an end to the peso 's decade-long 1-to-1 peg to the US dollar in early 2002 .
The economy bottomed out that year , with real GDP 18 % smaller than in 1998 and almost 60 % of Argentines under the poverty line .
Real GDP rebounded to grow by an average 8.5 % annually over the subsequent six years , taking advantage of previously idled industrial capacity and labor , an audacious debt restructuring and reduced debt burden , excellent international financial conditions , and expansionary monetary and fiscal policies .
Inflation also increased , however , during the administration of President Nestor KIRCHNER , which responded with price restraints on businesses , as well as export taxes and restraints , and beginning in early 2007 , with understating inflation data .
Cristina FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER succeeded her husband as President in late 2007 , and the rapid economic growth of previous years began to slow sharply the following year as government policies held back exports and the world economy fell into recession .
The economy has rebounded strongly from the 2009 recession , but the government 's continued reliance on expansionary fiscal and monetary policies risks exacerbating already high inflation .
The Dominican economy has been dependent on agriculture - primarily bananas - in years past , but increasingly has been driven by tourism as the government seeks to promote Dominica as an " ecotourism " destination .
In order to diversify the island 's production base , the government also is attempting to develop an offshore financial sector and has signed an agreement with the EU to develop geothermal energy resources .
In 2003 , the government began a comprehensive restructuring of the economy - including elimination of price controls , privatization of the state banana company , and tax increases - to address an economic and financial crisis and to meet IMF requirements .
This restructuring paved the way for an economic recovery - real growth for 2006 reached a two-decade high - and helped to reduce the debt burden , which remains at about 85 % of GDP .
Hurricane Dean struck the island in August 2007 causing damages equivalent to 20 % of GDP .
In 2009 , growth slowed as a result of the global recession ; it picked up only slightly in 2010 .
Burundi is a landlocked , resource-poor country with an underdeveloped manufacturing sector .
The economy is predominantly agricultural which accounts for just over 30 % of GDP and employs more than 90 % of the population .
Burundi 's primary exports are coffee and tea , which account for 90 % of foreign exchange earnings , though exports are a relatively small share of GDP .
Burundi 's export earnings - and its ability to pay for imports - rests primarily on weather conditions and international coffee and tea prices .
The Tutsi minority , 14 % of the population , dominates the coffee trade .
An ethnic-based war that lasted for over a decade resulted in more than 2,00,000 deaths , forced more than 48,000 refugees into Tanzania , and displaced 1,40,000 others internally .
Only one in two children go to school , and approximately one in 15 adults has HIV / AIDS .
Food , medicine , and electricity remain in short supply .
Less than 2 % of the population has electricity in its homes .
Burundi 's GDP grew around 4 % annually in 2006 - 10 .
Political stability and the end of the civil war have improved aid flows and economic activity has increased , but underlying weaknesses - a high poverty rate , poor education rates , a weak legal system , a poor transportation network , overburdened utilities , and low administrative capacity - risk undermining planned economic reforms .
The purchasing power of most Burundians has decreased as wage increases have not kept up with inflation .
Burundi will continue to remain heavily dependent on aid from bilateral and multilateral donors ; the delay of funds after a corruption scandal cut off bilateral aid in 2007 reduced government 's revenues and its ability to pay salaries .
Burundi joined the East African Community , which should boost Burundi 's regional trade ties , and received $ 700 million in debt relief in 2009 .
Government corruption is also hindering the development of a healthy private sector as companies seek to navigate an environment with ever-changing rules .
A TRAVELER hired an Ass to convey him to a distant place .
The day being intensely hot , and the sun shining in its strength , the Traveler stopped to rest , and sought shelter from the heat under the Shadow of the Ass .
As this afforded only protection for one , and as the Traveler and the owner of the Ass both claimed it , a violent dispute arose between them as to which of them had the right to the Shadow .
The owner maintained that he had let the Ass only , and not his Shadow .
The Traveler asserted that he had , with the hire of the Ass , hired his Shadow also .
The quarrel proceeded from words to blows , and while the men fought , the Ass galloped off .
In quarreling about the shadow we often lose the substance .
A FLEA settled upon the bare foot of a Wrestler and bit him , causing the man to call loudly upon Hercules for help .
When the Flea a second time hopped upon his foot , he groaned and said , " O Hercules ! if you will not help me against a Flea , how can I hope for your assistance against greater antagonists ? '
In the old days , when men were allowed to have many wives , a middle-aged Man had one wife that was old and one that was young ; each loved him very much , and desired to see him like herself .
Now the Man 's hair was turning grey , which the young Wife did not like , as it made him look too old for her husband .
So every night she used to comb his hair and pick out the white ones .
But the elder Wife saw her husband growing grey with great pleasure , for she did not like to be mistaken for his mother .
So every morning she used to arrange his hair and pick out as many of the black ones as she could .
The consequence was the Man soon found himself entirely bald .
Yield to all and you will soon have nothing to yield .
Russian President Vladimir Putin says he is optimistic a deal with Iran on its controversial nuclear program can be reached .
During a visit to Hungary Tuesday , Mr. Putin said it is quite possible to reach agreement on Moscow 's proposal to enrich uranium on Russian soil for Iran 's nuclear energy needs .
Iran has said it agrees in principle to the deal .
But it is unclear if it would also agree to stop domestic uranium enrichment - a demand of Russia and the West .
A Japanese official Tuesday quoted Iran 's visiting Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki as saying that the Russian plan would be a bridge between Iran 's right to peaceful nuclear energy and global trust in Tehran .
The United States and European Union say Iran is pursuing nuclear weapons - a charge it denies .
An international media group says it is disturbed by the recent arrests of two television broadcasters by Afghan authorities .
Reporters Without Borders says Fahim Kohdamani of Emroz TV and Ajmal Alamzai of Ariana TV were arrested on Monday for airing programs deemed anti-Islamic and for speaking with Taliban representatives .
It says Kohdamani was arrested for broadcasting music and hosting an entertainment program .
In a statement Tuesday , the group says his arrest appeared to be linked to a letter of complaint sent to President Hamid Karzai by Muslim clerics .
Alamzai , the host of Ariana TV 's program " Didadgah , " was detained for speaking with a Taliban member during a program that discussed U.S. efforts to reach out to moderate Islamic insurgents .
The statement says he was released late Monday evening .
North Korea says it will not dismantle its nuclear program before any new talks aimed at eliminating its access to nuclear weapons .
The commentary in the official Rodong Sinmun newspaper also says Pyongyang has neither opposed nor shunned the six-party talks on its nuclear ambitions .
The newspaper comments come amid renewed speculation that a new round of negotiations could begin within the next few weeks .
Three rounds of talks have been held in Beijing , but a fourth session scheduled for June , 2004 failed to take place because North Korea boycotted the process over what it called a hostile U.S. attitude .
But earlier this month , North Korean leader Kim Jong-il said the talks could resume as early as July .
Authorities in Haiti say gunmen shot and killed two police officers and a civilian Monday in an apparent ambush in Port-au-Prince .
Police say gunman attacked the car the officers and civilian were driving in .
The shooting follows several weeks of attacks that officials say are aimed at destabilizing the country ahead of elections scheduled for later this year .
The United Nations mission and Haitian police have struggled to restore order to Haiti for more than a year , after an armed uprising ousted President Jean-Bertrand Aristide .
A U.S. Congressional investigation into Hurricane Katrina blames failures at all levels of government for the suffering and loss of life that resulted from last August 's storm .
U.S. news organizations have published parts of a draft of the final document that is to be presented Wenesday to Congress .
The report says the federal government 's response to Katrina was marked by ineffectiveness and organizational paralysis .
It also faulted local and state officials in Louisiana for delaying mandatory evacuations .
The report notes that problems first noted after the September 11 terrorist attacks - such as the inability of first responders to communicate with each - were again problems during the Katrina response .
Democrats , who wanted an independent probe , boycotted the investigation carried out by Republican members of the House of Representatives .
Egypt says it will not ratify a key treaty banning nuclear tests unless Israel first signs a separate agreement calling for a halt to the spread of atomic bombs .
In Cairo Friday , Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit linked Egyptian ratification of the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty to Israeli acceptance of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation treaty , or NPT .
Mr. Gheit said the refusal of Israel to sign the non-proliferation accord is a threat to the stability of the entire Middle East .
All Middle Eastern countries except Israel have signed the NPT , which aims to stop the spread of nuclear weapons .
Israel and Egypt have both signed the other treaty banning nuclear tests , but neither nation has ratified it .
Israel has not officially stated that it has nuclear weapons , but it is widely believed to have about 200 nuclear warheads .
Security in Nepal 's capital remained tight Sunday , as police searched an area south of Kathmandu for rebels who launched a deadly pre-dawn attack on government troops .
The military says 17 rebels and at least six security personnel were killed in the fighting , which came as opponents of King Gyanendra 's direct rule continued to defy a government crackdown .
Elsewhere , authorities say suspected rebels shot dead a candidate for local office in the southern town of Janakpur .
The victim was identified as the local leader of a party that supports King Gyanendra .
Authorities say at least 30 protesters were arrested in the capital Sunday .
However , the royal government released former Prime Minister Gijira Prasad Koirala and several other leaders placed under house arrest last week .
Nepal 's main political parties vowed to continue the protests and called for a nationwide strike on Thursday .
The U.S. banking industry lost more than $ 26 billion in the last three months of 2008 , the first quarterly loss in 18 years .
The number of banks that regulators classify as " troubled " rose nearly 50 percent during the same quarter .
Banks lost money as the recession made it harder for borrowers to repay loans .
Banks were also hurt by losses on their investments in stocks and other areas .
The U.S. government 's Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation says the number of banks that actually fail is growing , with 25 going under last year .
Although the weak economy has resulted in increased losses for banks , the American Bankers Association said Thursday 97 percent of all the country 's banks are still rated " well capitalized " - meaning they have a significant financial buffer against losses .
There are more than 8,000 banks in the United States insured by the FDIC .
The Afghan government has welcomed the extradition of 14 Taleban insurgents from Pakistan to Kabul , but also urged its neighbor to hunt down more suspected militants hiding in Pakistan .
A government spokesman says such moves will strengthen relations between the two countries and will open a new era of cooperation in the war against terrorism .
Among those extradited were purported Taleban spokesmen Latif Hakimi and Mohammad Yasir .
Afghan state television showed Afghan soldiers leading the 14 men , all blindfolded , off a military plane late Wednesday .
Afghan officials say they will be put on trial for their role in violence against government targets , as well as Afghan and coalition forces .
Meanwhile , a bomb attached to a bicycle blew up Thursday , in the southern city of Kandahar , killing a policeman and wounding two civilians .
Lebanese officials say rescuers have recovered two bodies from the waters off Lebanon 's northern coast where a cargo ship carrying 83 crew members and livestock sank late Thursday .
The officials say Lebanese navy boats and United Nations vessels participating in the rescue mission also pulled at least 25 people from the rough Mediterranean waters .
Local authorities say the Panamanian-flagged vessel , carrying livestock from Uruguay to the Syrian port of Tartous , capsized some 17 kilometers off the Lebanese port of Tripoli in a heavy rainstorm .
They say the crew sent a distress call but the vessel sank before the rescue ships could reach the area .
Thursday 's accident came less than a week after a Togolese-flagged cargo ship with 12 crew on board sank off the Lebanese coast .
Six crew members were rescued but the rest remain missing .
Courtney Love plans to sell most of the items which once belonged to her husband , former Nirvana leader Kurt Cobain .
Comparing her house to a " mausoleum , " the 42-year-old rock singer says she plans to hold a charity auction .
Love and Cobain wed in 1992 and later that year had a daughter , Frances Bean .
Kurt Cobain committed suicide in 1994 .
Speaking to AOL Music , Love says " My daughter does n't need to inherit a giant ... bag full of flannel ... shirts . "
She says Frances will get one of Cobain 's sweaters , a guitar , and the lyrics to Nirvana 's biggest hit , " Smells Like Teen Spirit . "
AOL publicist Kurt Patat gave no date for the auction .
U.S. troops have killed eight insurgents in western Iraq , as military officials dispute claims that militants have kidnapped two U.S. Marines .
About one thousand U.S. troops launched the offensive near the Syrian border , in the latest attempt to drive insurgents from the area .
Residents said the operation appeared to be widening Sunday to several nearby towns .
Meanwhile , U.S. officials said they had no reason to believe an alleged statement from al Qaida in Iraq claiming to have kidnapped two Marines involved in the military offensive .
In a statement , U.S. officials said they were conducting checks to verify that all Marines were accounted for .
An Islamist web site carried the kidnapping claim , which demanded the release of female Sunni Muslim prisoners .
In Baghdad , militants freed the brother of Interior Minister Bayan Jabor , who was kidnapped one day earlier near the Sadr City district .
Al-Qaida has claimed responsibility for the July 7 London subway and bus bombings that killed 52 people .
The Arabic language television network al-Jazeera Thursday broadcast what it said is a videotape of one of the bombers , Mohammad Sidique Khan , made just before the attack .
On the video , he blames the bombings on British support for the war in Iraq and what he calls atrocities against Muslims .
British officials say four suicide bombers were killed in the July 7 attacks .
An attempted bombing two weeks later failed .
It is still not clear if there is a direct tie between the two attacks .
The videotape also included comments from al-Qaida 's second-in-command , Ayman al-Zawahiri .
He warned that British Prime Minster Tony Blair 's policies would bring more destruction to the British people .
The British Foreign Office said it will not comment on any aspects of the tape .
Several people believed to be North Korean asylum seekers have entered a South Korean school in Dalian in northeast China .
South Korea 's Yonhap news agency says the group of nine includes three children .
Hundreds of North Koreans have broken into diplomatic embassies and foreign schools in China in recent years seeking asylum .
Human rights groups say the defectors are seeking refuge from the hunger and repression in their homeland .
China has an agreement with Pyongyang to send asylum seekers back home , but it has allowed many to travel to South Korea via a third country .
Reports from China say protests broke out in the eastern province of Zhejiang at a factory suspected of pollution .
Witnesses are quoted Monday as saying several villagers were injured when they clashed with police Saturday outside the Tian Neng Battery Company in Meishan .
The protesters are said to have burned several police cars and damaged factory and government buildings .
There has been no official report of the violence .
Local residents say the battery factory is responsible for high levels of lead that have poisoned their children .
The protest over industrial pollution is the third this year in Zhejiang province .
China has been struck by violent protests in recent months as rural villagers vent anger over industrial pollution and allegations of corruption and unfair land distribution .
Former Haitian president Rene Preval has been declared the winner of the Caribbean nation 's presidential election .
Haiti 's Provisional Electoral Council said Thursday , Mr. Preval received 51 percent of the votes cast last week .
His total was raised after a last minute decision to discount 85,000 blank ballots .
Haitian Prime Minister Gerard Latortue told the Associated Press the government acknowledged the final decision of the electoral council and saluted Mr. Preval 's election .
The announcement follows five days of protests by Preval supporters who alleged massive voter fraud .
Mr. Preval urged his supporters to demonstrate peacefully .
Haitian officials stopped the vote count Wednesday after thousands of ballots were found burning in a trash heap outside the capital , Port-au-Prince .
Nepal 's government says it will push ahead with planned parliamentary elections even if Maoist rebels do not come the negotiating table by January 13 .
Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba told journalists in Kathmandu Thursday it is their last chance to present their demands for ending their decades-long violent campaign .
He said he is determined to set the process for holding parliamentary elections in motion with or without the rebels ' participation .
There was no immediate comment from the guerrillas , who have demanded United Nations or an international human rights group mediate the talks with Kathmandu .
Violence has surged since peace talks failed last year after the Maoists demanded election of a special assembly to decide the future of the monarchy .
The rebels want to replace the constitutional monarchy with a communist state .
Ukrainian opposition leader Yulia Tymoshenko says the United States understands the problems Ukraine faces in its democratic development , and its need for energy security .
Tymoshenko met in Washington Thursday with Vice President Dick Cheney and National Security Advisor Stephen Hadley .
The former Ukrainian prime minister is scheduled to meet with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice Friday .
After her meetings Thursday , Tymoshenko said Ukraine faces a real threat of losing its political sovereignty , independence and integration with the European community for the first time in 15 years .
Ukraine is struggling with a political stalemate between supporters of West-leaning reformer President Viktor Yushchenko , and those of Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych , who wants stronger ties with Russia .
President Yushchenko and Tymoshenko were once allies , but their relationship deteriorated because of bitter political infighting a year after the 2004 Orange Revolution that swept Mr. Yushchenko to power .
Pakistan says it would welcome India 's participation in a proposed gas pipeline with Iran worth $ 4 billion dollars , but says that the project will go ahead even if New Delhi does not join it .
Pakistani Foreign Minister Khurshid Kasuri made the comment after Tuesday 's meeting with his Iranian counterpart , Kamal Kharrazi , in Islamabad .
Iran proposed the pipeline in 1996 .
But New Delhi 's response has been lukewarm given its troubled relations with Islamabad and concerns about the safety of the pipeline carrying its energy supplies through Pakistani territory .
Mr. Kharrazi 's visit came as India and Pakistan concluded another round of slow-moving peace talks .
The Iranian foreign minister met with Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf late Monday .
Before leaving Pakistan , Mr. Kharrazi held talks with Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz .
President Bush says federal officials have " deep concern " about Tropical Storm Rita causing more flooding in New Orleans .
In remarks at the White House Monday , Mr. Bush said the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers fears that heavy rain could cause the city 's recently-repaired levees to break again .
Much of New Orleans sits below sea level , and the levees ' failure during Hurricane Katrina put 80 percent of the city underwater .
Weather forecasters say Tropical Storm Rita could become a hurricane and move into the Gulf of Mexico south of New Orleans later this week .
The president said New Orleans officials must be " realistic " about bringing people back to the city before it is safe .
Iran says the only solution to its nuclear dispute with the West is negotiations , and not referral of its atomic energy program to the U.N. Security Council .
Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Hamid Reza Asefi made that assertion Sunday at his weekly news conference in Tehran .
Asefi cautioned the West against acting in haste against Iran , saying a referral to the Security Council would solve nothing .
The Iranian spokesman 's comments came as representatives of Britain , Germany , France , the United States and the European Union prepared for a meeting Monday in London to discuss whether to refer Iran to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions .
The Europeans say the impasse should be resolved through diplomacy , but Washington says a military option should be retained as a last resort .
U.S. troops opened fire on a civilian vehicle north of Baghdad Monday , killing at least three Iraqis , including a child , when troops say the vehicle failed to stop as ordered .
But surviving family members say five people , including three children , were killed .
U.S. Major Steve Warren called the deaths a tragedy .
Hours later , a car bomb exploded as a U.S. convoy passed in the same area , killing four Iraqis .
Meanwhile , at a reconciliation conference in Cairo , Iraq 's President Jalal Talabani said he is willing to hold talks with insurgents and members of the ousted government .
Mr. Talabani then traveled to Tehran for the first visit to Iran by an Iraqi head of state in nearly four decades .
He met with Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad for wide-ranging talks on relations and the fight against terrorism .
Iran 's intelligence minister says two Americans who were detained for illegally crossing the country 's border should be tried on charges of spying .
Iranian state-run media quotes Heidar Moslehi as saying " documents and evidence " about Shane Bauer and Josh Fattal have been handed over to Iran 's judicial system for a decision .
He also said Friday that a third American who was freed should " return to Iran if necessary . "
Iranian authorities arrested Bauer , Fattal and Sarah Shourd last year on charges of unlawfully crossing into Iranian territory from Iraq .
Iran freed Shourd on $ 5,00,000 bail last month .
Mosleshi says she was freed " temporarily " and should " return to Iran if necessary . "
The hikers and their family members have said if the trio crossed the border , it was by accident .
Shourd says there were no signs , fences or other indications of a border .
Spain is holding a national day of mourning and commemoration Friday , to mark the one year anniversary of the Madrid train bombings which killed 191 people .
Church bells rang out at 7.37 a.m. local time ( 637 UTC ) to mark the first of 10 explosions that occurred aboard four commuter trains one year ago .
The coordinated attacks produced the worst death toll ever from terrorism in Spain .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan and Morocco 's King Mohamed , will join Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero - and the entire Spanish nation - for five minutes of silence at midday .
Islamic militants , predominantly from Morocco and sympathetic to al-Qaeda , claimed responsibility for the attacks .
The European Union is offering to resume development aid to Sudan , now that an agreement has been reached to end the nation 's 21-year civil war .
In a statement Sunday , the EU offered to give Sudan more than $ 540 million to aid development over the next three years .
But the offer requires that the agreement with southern rebels be implemented .
It also requires Sudan to make progress at ending the separate fighting and humanitarian disaster in its Darfur region .
The EU stopped sending development money to Sudan 14 years ago because of the southern civil war .
A statement attributed to the militant group al-Qaida In Iraq says four Iraqis carried out the triple suicide bombings in Jordan that killed at least 57 people and wounded more than 100 others .
The statement , which appeared Friday , on an Islamist website associated with the group , says the team included three men and a woman married to one of the attackers .
The statement came as U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan met with officials in Amman to discuss Wednesday 's attacks .
Jordanian King Abdullah has vowed to track down and bring to justice the militants who helped plan the suicide bombings on three hotels .
Government officials said most of the dead are Jordanians , but at least 12 foreigners have been identified , including two Americans .
Turkish and European Union officials are meeting Monday in Ankara to discuss Turkey 's progress in making reforms ahead of EU membership talks scheduled for later this year .
EU Enlargement Commissioner Olli Rehn is expected to press Turkey to sign a protocol that will amount to a de-facto recognition of Cyprus ' internationally-recognized Greek government .
Turkey must sign the protocol before formal EU membership talks can begin on October third .
Ankara previously refused to recognize the Greek government of Cyprus , which joined the EU last May .
Turkey is the only country in the world that recognizes the government of the Turkish-ruled part of Cyprus .
Mr. Rehn is also expected to push Ankara to continue with efforts to stop torture , improve freedom of expression , and increase the rights of women and the Kurdish minority .
Scientists are hailing the results of a new study that shows a drug already used to treat advanced cancer has proven extremely effective against an aggressive form of early breast cancer .
In an article published Thursday in The New England Journal of Medicine , researchers found the drug Herceptin can prevent 50 percent of all breast tumors from recurring in patients with early stages of the disease .
The drug , which targets only diseased cells , only works for the estimated 20-percent of breast cancer cases in which tumors produce too much of a protein known as HER-2 .
Breast cancer is the most common cause of cancer among women in the United States .
More than 2,00,000 American women will be diagnosed with breast cancer , and about 40,000 women will die of the disease in the United States in 2005 .
Officials say Herceptin will be marketed internationally by the Swiss drugmaker Roche .
Iraqi officials say Jan. 30 has been set as the new date for the war-torn country 's first national elections since a U.S.-led military coalition toppled Saddam Hussein 's regime .
An Iraqi election commission spokesman , Farid Ayar , who spoke to reporters Sunday did not give a reason for the election date change , which postpones by three days an earlier voting plan drawn up by the interim government in Baghdad .
Iraqis will choose a new national assembly , provincial councils across the country and a Kurdish regional parliament .
Continuing attacks on coalition forces by Iraqi insurgents have been a growing source of concern for Iraqi and U.S. officials as election day approaches .
U.S. military officials said today that nine men found dead Saturday in the northern city of Mosul were all Iraqi soldiers who had been shot in the back of the head .
Several members of four top Italian football teams have been ordered to stand trial in a sports court on charges stemming from the largest football scandal in the country 's history .
At least 26 people from Juventus , AC Milan , Lazio and Fiorentina will face allegations of match-fixing , illegal betting and manipulation of referee assignments .
The trial begins next week at the Olympic Stadium in Rome .
No players are involved .
Juventus has been investigated for sporting fraud on allegations that it tried to manipulate the Serie A by handpicking referees .
Juventus won the first division title for the last two seasons .
But those titles could be stripped along with possible relegation as far down as the third division .
The other teams face lesser demotions .
Iran is reviewing proposals offered by the European Union aimed at ending a long-running standoff over its nuclear program .
The proposals were delivered Friday by the ambassadors of Britain , France and Germany .
An Iranian foreign ministry spokesman said his country would study the proposals for one or two days and issue a response " soon . "
The European plan calls on Iran to end uranium conversion and enrichment , which are suspected to be part of a nuclear weapons program .
In exchange , the EU pledges Iran fuel , trade and investment as well as political and technological cooperation .
Iran insists its nuclear program is used for the peaceful purpose of energy generation and has said it will soon resume uranium processing .
French Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy said Friday he hopes Iran will hear the voice of reason and not resume nuclear activities .
The International Atomic Energy Agency will meet Tuesday to discuss Iran .
A Nigerian police spokesman says 164 people have been arrested for alleged involvement in violence near the town of Jos earlier this month that killed more than 200 people .
The spokesman said Sunday that 41 of those arrested will be charged with terrorism , which could result in life in prison .
The others , he said , will be charged with illegal possession of firearms , rioting and other offenses .
Witnesses to the March 7 violence said that ethnic Fulani herdsmen , who are mostly Muslim , attacked mainly Christian villages south of Jos , setting homes on fire and slashing people with knives and machetes .
The U.N. special investigator on freedom of religion has said the massacre could have been prevented had authorities addressed deep-seated tensions between Muslims and Christians .
Jos has a history of sectarian violence .
The city sits on the dividing line between Nigeria 's mainly Muslim north and predominantly Christian south .
Iraqi authorities have imposed tight security in and around Baghdad and the holy city of Karbala where Shi'ite Muslim pilgrims are converging for a major religious ceremony .
Officials expect two million pilgrims to join the main Ashura observances Thursday , marking the seventh century martyrdom of Imam Hussein , one of Shi'ite Islam 's most revered leaders .
Government troops have sealed off Karbala to vehicles and are body-searching the arriving pilgrims .
Police in Baghdad also imposed tight security in Kadhimiya district - another site of Shi'ite pilgrimage - and set up checkpoints around the city .
Despite the security , Iraq 's higher education minister survived a bomb attack in Baghdad that wounded three people .
In the past , insurgents have attacked pilgrims during Ashura observances .
In 2004 , about 170 people were killed .
Pope Benedict XVI says science has narrowed humanity 's understanding of the origins of life and that the theory of evolution can neither be proven or dismissed .
The pope 's extended views on evolution are appearing in print for the first time as part of a newly published German book called Creation and Evolution .
He writes that evolution can never be known for sure because it is impossible to conduct controlled laboratory experiments into the theory .
But Benedict does not give a 100 percent endorsement of creationism or intelligent design , saying the debate must be philosophical and go beyond science .
Advocates of intelligent design say life on Earth is too complex to have evolved randomly and must be the product of a higher power .
A state-run Chinese newspaper reported Monday that more than 200 people are expected to go on trial this week for their involvement in sectarian riots last month in the western region of Xinjiang .
The official China Daily said the trials will take place in Urumqi , the capital of Xinjiang and the site of China 's worst ethnic violence in decades .
Nearly 200 people were killed and about 1,700 injured .
The paper said the charges include vandalizing public property , organizing crowds to cause bodily harm , robbery , murder and arson , among other crimes .
Beijing blamed the violence on outside forces stirring up separatist sentiments among the mostly Muslim Uighur minority , but Uighurs blame the police for provoking the violence .
Delegates from many of south Asian nations affected by December 's deadly tsunami are in Tokyo to study Japan 's advanced tsunami warning system .
A three-day conference sponsored by the United Nations opened Tuesday as part of an effort to establish an early tsunami warning system for the Indian Ocean by mid-2006 .
The representatives from Indonesia , Sri Lanka , Thailand and other nations in the region also will visit Japanese coastal communities to see how they respond to earthquake and tsunami warnings .
Japan , which is prone to earthquakes and tsunamis , has offered to share its tsunami-warning technology to build the new Indian Ocean system .
NATO allies have raised concerns about a recent deal in Afghanistan to free five Taleban prisoners in exchange for a kidnapped Italian reporter .
U.S. Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns told reporters in Brussels Tuesday that a majority of member states oppose the exchange of hostages for terrorists .
Members Tuesday discussed adopting a common NATO policy to deal with similar hostage situations .
Early last week , the Afghan government released five Taleban militants in exchange for kidnapped journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo , who had been held for two weeks .
Britain and the United States raised objections to the deal , saying it increases the risk of similar kidnappings of NATO and Afghan troops .
Mastrogiacomo was abducted in southern Afghanistan 's Helmand province in early March .
Kidnappers beheaded his Afghan driver .
The U.S. Geological Survey says a strong earthquake has hit eastern Indonesia .
The service said Tuesday the quake had a magnitude of 6.3 and was centered in the Molucca Sea about 135 kilometers northwest of Ternate .
An Indonesian website , vivanews.com , said the quake struck at 9.08 pm local time and there appeared to be little risk of a tsunami .
There were no immediate reports of damage or injuries .
An earthquake of that magnitude can cause damage in populated areas within a radius of about 160 kilometers .
Indonesia sits on fault lines that make the region prone to earthquakes .
A tsunami triggered by a massive undersea quake in December 2004 killed nearly 2,30,000 people , half of them in Indonesia 's Aceh province .
China has imposed a massive news blackout on the deadly police suppression of a village protest in Dongzhou earlier this month .
China 's state controlled media have been nearly silent about the December 6 incident in which activists say some 20 people were shot dead by police while protesting against a local power plant .
The only official news coverage has alleged that three civilians were killed and several injured after protesters attacked police , forcing officers to respond .
The news blackout extends to the Internet , where reporters say sophisticated filtering has blocked foreign news stories and prevented search engines , such as Google , from looking for keywords associated with the shootings .
But media rights group Reporters without Borders says some Internet users have successfully published messages about the incident in chat rooms by alluding to the shootings without mentioning specifics .
Chinese officials are reporting a new outbreak of bird flu in poultry - this time in northern China .
China 's agriculture ministry said Friday that a state lab has confirmed that more than 200 birds died of the H5N1 strain of bird flu in Inner Mongolia .
More than 16,000 birds have been culled in an effort to contain the outbreak .
Earlier Friday , Indonesia said it has received permission from Swiss drug giant Roche to locally produce Tamiflu , the drug thought to be most effective in treating bird flu in humans .
Roche also announced that it would provide Taiwan with an additional 1.3 million treatments of Tamiflu .
The company said it made the decision after determining that local companies could not produce the drug more rapidly or at a lower cost .
Nearly 70 people have died of bird flu in Asia since 2003 .
The Iraqi prime minister 's office says the journalist who threw his shoes at U.S. President George Bush has apologized .
A spokesman for Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki said Thursday that reporter Muntazer al-Zaidi wrote a letter in which he asked for Mr. Maliki 's pardon , calling his display an " ugly act . "
Relatives of Zaidi immediately cast doubt that he would write such a letter of his own accord .
The reporter has been in custody since the incident Sunday .
He faces up to 15 years in prison , depending on what charges will be made against him and if he is found guilty .
Thousands of Iraqis have protested in the streets , demanding his release .
Zaidi has become somewhat of a folk hero for his action against Mr. Bush , who spearheaded the invasion of Iraq .
The leader of Hezbollah in Lebanon has rejected President Bush 's call for the militant group to disarm .
Sheikh Hassan Nasrallah says his organization needs to be armed to protect Lebanon and deter Israeli aggression .
He spoke Wednesday in response to Mr. Bush , who said Hezbollah could play a political role in Lebanon if it disarmed and supported the Israeli-Palestinian peace process .
Mr. Bush says Hezbollah will remain designated a terrorist organization .
Mr. Bush met Wednesday at the White House with the Lebanese Patriarch of the Maronite Church , Nasrallah Sfeir .
The patriarch says he looks forward to an end to the " suffocating political conditions " in Syrian-dominated Lebanon .
Meanwhile , witnesses say Syrian intelligence agents left Beirut following U.S. , European and Lebanese opposition calls to do so .
Suspected U.S. drones fired missiles at several suspected militant hideouts in Pakistan 's North Waziristan tribal region Tuesday , killing at least 16 people .
North Waziristan is known as a base for the Taliban-allied Haqqani group , which is blamed for cross-border attacks against U.S. , NATO and Afghan troops in Afghanistan .
U.S. officials do not publicly comment on the drone strikes , which have raised tensions between Pakistan and the United States in the past .
Meanwhile , the death toll from four days of violence in Pakistan 's southern port city of Karachi has reached at least 26 , after at least six more people were killed Tuesday .
The clashes appeared to be between activists from rival political parties - the Muttahida Qaumi Movement and the Awami National Party - which traditionally gather support from different ethnic groups .
The White House has yet to comment on a published report that the National Security Agency conducted broader surveillance of e-mails and telephone conversations without court orders than the administration has acknowledged .
Current and former government officials told The New York Times the NSA accessed domestic and international communications with help from telecommunication companies .
The newspaper says the companies have been storing information on calling patterns since the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States .
NSA officials were reported to have been studying the information in hope of finding terrorists .
The Bush administration has been under increased scrutiny from the public and many lawmakers for authorizing without court orders the surveillance of what the government says are only international calls and e-mails to and from the United States .
Vice President Dick Cheney says the Bush administration has all the legal authority it needs to wiretap phone calls and e-mails between U.S. citizens and persons abroad suspected of links to terrorism .
Cheney was asked on a national U.S. television show PBSNewshour Tuesday if the president would be willing to work with Congress to settle some of the disputes about the legality of the secret surveillance program .
He expressed concern that the legislative process could lead to the disclosure of sensitive operational matters .
Meanwhile , a Republican member of Congress has called for a full congressional investigation into the wiretapping program .
Congresswoman Heather Wilson - chairwoman of a House Intelligence Subcommittee - told The New York Times she has " serious concerns " about the program .
On Monday , Attorney General Alberto Gonzales faced tough questions on the program from several members of a Senate panel .
Chinese health officials have confirmed a new case of bird flu in a man hospitalized in critical condition in Guangdong province , near Hong Kong .
The case has caused Hong Kong to declare a three-week ban on live poultry from the mainland .
Chinese state media say the infection brings the country 's total of human cases of bird flu to 19 .
Reports say the 31-year-old patient in the town of Shenzhen developed fever and pneumonia-like symptoms June 3 .
Earlier Thursday , the World Health Organization confirmed that a seven-year-old Indonesian girl who died last month was infected with bird flu .
That means 38 people in Indonesia have now died of bird flu .
Avian flu has killed more than 125 people around the world since late 2003 .
Most of the victims have been in Asia .
Iran is promising a mighty response to any aggression from Israel , as political hostilities between the two governments continue to increase .
The latest warning from Tehran came during an interview with Iranian Defense Minister Mostafa Mohammad Najjar Friday by the official Islamic Republic News Agency .
He was responding to questions about escalating troubles with Israel , including speculation of an Israeli attack on Iranian nuclear facilities .
The defense minister said Iran 's armed forces would provide a rapid , strong and destructive response to any such attack .
Iran 's foreign relations have been further strained by controversial comments by Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .
The hard-line president has called for Israel to be " wiped off the map . "
He has also cast doubt on the Holocaust , and has suggested that Israel be moved to Europe .
Deposed Honduran President Manuel Zelaya says talks on ending the stand-off stemming from his ouster have broken down .
Speaking from the Brazilian Embassy in the capital , Tegucigalpa , where he has taken refuge , Mr. Zelaya told reporters the talks are suspended until the other side presents what he called a " reasonable " stance .
A member of Mr. Zelaya 's negotiating team , Victor Meza , said the proposal offered by interim President Roberto Micheletti is " completely unacceptable . "
That proposal calls for the Honduran Supreme Court to decide whether Mr. Zelaya should be allowed to return to power .
Despite Mr. Zelaya 's statements , envoys from the two sides say negotiations will continue .
Mr. Micheletti has been under intense international pressure to restore Mr. Zelaya .
The deposed president 's opponents say he was ousted because he was trying to illegally change the constitution to extend his term in office .
U.S. consumer prices posted their sharpest drop in half a century in November .
Thursday 's report from the Labor Department says falling energy costs brought prices down a steep six-tenths of a percent for the month .
Economists say energy and food costs can swing widely from month to month , so setting aside those volatile prices may give a clearer picture of inflation in the overall economy .
By that measure , prices rose a modest two-tenths of a percent .
Energy prices soared earlier this year because of hurricane damage .
A separate report says the number of people who lost jobs because of Hurricanes Katrina , Rita , and Wilma now exceeds $ 6,00,000 .
The report also shows the number of people applying for unemployment insurance rose slightly last week .
Chinese authorities say 254 people were killed in a massive mudslide that buried a northern Chinese village .
The death toll rose sharply Saturday after the discovery of more than 70 additional bodies in Shanxi province .
The official Xinhua news agency reported a wall of waste and mud from an illegal mine plowed into a village of about 1,000 people on Monday .
The slide buried an outdoor market said to have been packed with people .
Officials stated hundreds could have been killed .
More than 1,000 people are involved in rescue and recovery operations .
Chinese work safety officials blamed the illegal mine for the disaster .
Police have detained 12 people associated with the mine , including its boss .
The United Nations says 2007 was one of the deadliest years on record for U.N. staffers .
The United Nations said Wednesday that 42 civilian staffers and peacekeepers were killed in acts of violence worldwide last year , compared to 32 in 2006 and about half that in 2005 .
The U.N. said the worst incident this year was in a bombing in Algiers on December 11 , when 17 U.N. staff members were among dozens who died in two car bomb attacks , an incident Secretary Ban Ki-Moon called " despicable . "
Six staffers lost their lives in a bomb attack in Lebanon June 24 , and another died the following month .
Six other U.N. workers died in Sudanese violence in several different incidents .
Afghanistan was also the scene of six U.N. deaths over the course of the year .
Other U.N. staffers were detained in Darfur , Somalia , and Burma .
The U.S. government has proposed a new , high-tech passport card for Americans who travel internationally within the Western Hemisphere .
The State Department and the Department of Homeland Security have submitted Tuesday a proposal for public comment .
The plan calls for a card that is small enough to fit into a person 's wallet .
It would meet the same standards as a traditional passport book , but would only be used by U.S. citizens traveling from the U.S. to Canada , Mexico , the Caribbean and Bermuda .
The proposed card would use radio frequency identification ( RFID ) that links the card to a government database that contains biographical information and a photograph .
The State Department says the passport card could make frequent travel easier for people who live in border communities .
Former Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko says she will not seek a coalition with the pro-Russian Party of Regions after Sunday 's parliamentary elections .
Tymoshenko Tuesday ruled out any partnership with the party led by former Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych .
Opinion polls show the Regions Party is favored to win the largest number of seats in the vote .
But no single party is expected to have enough seats to form a government .
A top official for President Viktor Yushchenko 's Our Ukraine party also rejected forming a coalition with the Party of Regions .
Mr. Yushchenko 's campaign manager , Roman Bezsmertniy , says the party hopes to form a coalition with the bloc led by Tymoshenko .
The two groups were the key forces behind the so-called " Orange Revolution " that helped bring Mr. Yushchenko to power last year .
The United States has expressed disappointment that an Egyptian court has rejected the appeal of a blogger , convicted for insulting Islam and the Egyptian president .
State Department spokesman , Sean McCormack said Thursday the court 's decision is a setback for human rights in Egypt .
He said the U.S. is deeply concerned that a blogger was sentenced for expressing his opinions .
He said freedom of expression is critical in a democratic society .
On Monday , an Egyptian appeals court upheld a lower court decision last month to sentence blogger Abdel Karim Suleiman to four years in prison - three for insulting Islam and one for insulting President Hosni Mubarak .
Suleiman plans to bring the latest decision to the country 's highest appeals court .
In his blog published in 2004 , Suleiman called Mr. Mubarak a dictator .
He wrote that Al-Azhar University , the seat of Sunni Muslim learning , trains extremists .
An Australian prosecutor said Thursday a terrorism defendant admitted to police he was recruited by al-Qaida to monitor military bases in the country .
Joseph Terrence Thomas has pleaded not guilty to charges that he received funds from al-Qaida , supported the terrorist group 's activities and held a fake passport .
But prosecutor Nicholas Robinson told the Victoria state Supreme Court that Thomas admitted to Australian police he trained at an al-Qaida camp in Afghanistan in 2001 , and had been told to watch military activities in Australia .
The prosecutor said Thomas also told police he saw al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden in close quarters on several occasions .
He said Thomas told police he accepted $ 3,500 and a plane ticket from an al-Qaida agent in Pakistan .
Wimbledon runner-up Lindsay Davenport has withdrawn from the U.S. Fed Cup tennis team for its semifinal against Russia because of a back injury .
Jill Craybas , who beat Serena Williams at the All England Club last month , has replaced Davenport .
Craybas lost to Venus Williams , who is the Fed Cup team 's top singles player .
The 32-year-old Craybas will play doubles with Corina Morariu , shifting Mashona Washington to the number-two singles slot .
It will be Craybas ' second appearance in the Fed Cup .
The U.S.-Russia match will take place this Saturday and Sunday on an indoor clay court at the Olympic Stadium in Moscow .
The winner faces the winner of this weekend 's other Fed Cup semifinal between France and Spain .
The championship is set for mid-September .
Ukrainian President Victor Yushchenko says his nation is obliged to prevent crimes against humanity .
President Yushchenko told the United Nations General Assembly Thursday that Ukraine lost 10 million lives during the era of Soviet dictator Josef Stalin .
He said he wanted the world to be aware of such brutality .
Mr. Yushchenko said Ukraine is an active member in the fight against terrorism and is committed to controlling nuclear proliferation .
He said the country has developed what he called a road map to bring Ukraine closer to a united Europe and integration into the international economy .
The Sudanese government and the main southern rebel group say they are continuing peace talks through Christmas to try to fulfill a promise to reach a final deal before the end of the year .
The two sides have promised the United Nations Security Council they will sign an agreement by December 31st to formally end 21 years of civil war .
However , a Sudanese presidential political adviser Qutbi al-Mahdi is quoted by the official Sudan Media Center Saturday as saying a final deal will not be signed until January 10 .
The Sudanese government and the rebel Sudan People 's Liberation Army have already signed several key accords at peace talks in Kenya , including power-sharing and security deals .
The southern conflict is separate from the one in Sudan 's western Darfur region , where rebels took up arms last year .
Separate attacks in Afghanistan have wounded five U.S. soldiers and left a local government official dead .
The soldiers were wounded Saturday when their armored vehicle was hit by a bomb in eastern Kunar province .
Coalition forces responded with small arms fire .
In a separate attack , a suicide bomber targeted Afghan and coalition forces in Kandahar province .
None of the troops was reported killed or wounded .
However , security forces shot and killed a suspected accomplice to the attack .
A purported Taleban spokesman claimed responsibility for the two bombings .
In northern Tahhar province , Afghan officials say unidentified gunmen killed a local government official .
They say Sayed Sadeq was killed by men who broke into his house early Saturday .
Sadeq was the speaker of the Tahhar provincial assembly .
Mexican officials say a small plane has crashed in central Mexico state , killing two people and destroying at least one house .
Officials say the twin-engine Aero Commander aircraft was en route from Cancun to the city of Toluca when it went down late Friday in a residential area a few kilometers from of the runway .
Emergency crews say two people from the plane were killed and a third was injured .
No injuries on the ground have been reported .
Officials have yet to say what may have caused the accident .
The United Nations war crimes tribunal has decided against separating the Kosovo section of the trial of former Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic from that involving Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina .
The three-judge panel made the decision Tuesday , in an effort to speed up the Milosevic trial .
It previously had suggested a division , amid growing concerns about the former Yugoslav president 's poor health , which has repeatedly delayed the proceedings .
The court also adjourned the trial until January 23 , ahead of a planned Christmas break , giving Mr. Milosevic an additional three weeks to rest .
It rejected Mr. Milosevic 's request for extra time to present his defense , and it criticized him for focusing most of his time on Kosovo in efforts to force the court to give him the extension .
Mr. Milosevic faces more than 60 counts of war crimes and crimes against humanity for his role in the Balkan conflicts of the 1990s .
England 's Alistair Cook has hit a century in his test debut while Kevin Pietersen added another 87 runs to lift their team on the fourth day of its opening test match against India in Nagpur .
Cook , a 21-year-old left-handed opener , scored 104 not out , while Pietersen was more aggressive at the crease and reached 87 before being dismissed by Rahul Dravid .
The English reached 297-for three at stumps for an overall lead of 367 runs .
India was all out for 323 in its first innings .
English bowler Matthew Hoggard took six wickets while allowing 57 runs in 30.5 overs .
England 's India tour includes three tests and seven one-day international matches , through mid-April .
Floods in northern Venezuela have killed at least 13 people and forced more than 5,000 to leave their homes .
Heavy rains have caused floods and landslides , forcing authorities to declare a state of emergency in the capital city of Caracas and the country 's northern provinces .
Flooding rivers and landslides have blocked traffic in northern Venezuela 's coastal areas .
Minister of Education Aristolbulo Isturiz announced Wednesday that classes across the country have been canceled to allow flood victims to seek refuge in the schools .
Weather forecasts say more rain is likely to hit northern Venezuela over the next three days .
A top opposition leader in Ivory Coast has returned to the west African nation after three years in exile .
Alassane Ouattara arrived in Abidjan Wednesday , greeted by a small group of supporters and dozens of U.N. peacekeepers who will provide him protection .
He issued a call for unity and said he is returning to his country with " a lot of love . "
Ouattara is a former prime minster and heads the Rally of Republicans party .
He fled Ivory Coast for France three years ago after allies of President Laurent Gbagbo accused him of supporting northern-based rebels in the country 's civil war .
Ouattara has said he will run in presidential elections scheduled for October .
Ivory Coast is divided between rebel-held and government-controlled areas .
A peace deal to reunite the country has repeatedly stalled .
Pakistan police say a roadside bomb attack on a prison van has wounded at least 10 policemen in the restive northwest .
Officials say Saturday 's explosion was near a jail in the town of Timergarah in Lower Dir district .
No group has claimed responsibility for the attack .
Elsewhere in Pakistan , at least six people have been wounded by an explosion in southwestern Pakistan .
Police say the blast went off in a bakery Saturday in Sibbi in the province of Baluchistan .
Russia and Ukraine say they have reached a final agreement on natural gas deliveries for the rest of the year .
Russia 's state-run gas monopoly Gazprom says the deal , announced Thursday , also specifies prices for gas delivered in the first two months of this year .
Additionally , the new agreement streamlines gas trade by eliminating intermediary companies that Ukraine said were complicating gas payment procedures .
Gazprom cut gas deliveries to Ukraine by more than 50 percent earlier this month , because , it said , no payment provisions were in place for gas delivered to Ukraine in January and February .
The Russian company had demanded $ 600 million in back payments , as well as for a payment plan for the rest of the year .
Ukraine threatened to siphon gas meant for Europe from pipelines that cross Ukraine .
The Israeli military says Israeli and Palestinian officials have agreed to meet for a second time Wednesday to resolve a standoff on handing over security of the West Bank town of Jericho .
Talks earlier Wednesday on transferring control of the towns of Jericho and Tulkarem broke down without an agreement .
Palestinian officials said the biggest obstacle is whether Israel will agree to remove the main checkpoint at the entrance of Jericho .
The Israeli pullback was agreed to at a Palestinian-Israeli summit last month in Egypt , but has been delayed because of a Palestinian suicide bombing 12 days ago in Tel Aviv that killed four people .
The transfer would be the first of several planned Israeli pullouts from five towns in the West Bank , including Qalqilya , Bethlehem and Ramallah .
French authorities are holding five men on suspicion of links to the al-Qaida affiliated terrorist group behind the deadly bombings in Algeria last week .
Officials say the five are part of a group of eight detained in Paris and the northwestern region of Rouen Tuesday .
Three of the group were released after questioning .
Authorities say the five are suspected of providing computers and telecommunications help to al-Qaida 's North African wing , which claimed responsibility for the car bomb attacks .
The officials said there was no indication of any direct links between those detained and the attacks and no sign that the five were planning any attacks in France .
The bombings outside United Nations offices and a government building in Algiers killed at least 37 people , including 17 U.N. employees .
The United States has welcomed the release of 32 Ethiopian opposition members who had been detained in Ethiopia since post-election violence in 2005 .
The State Department said the release of the opposition figures Saturday will promote political dialogue in the country .
It urged the Ethiopian government to continue to encourage national reconciliation and political reform .
The opposition members were the second group of opposition figures released since July .
Another 38 were released last month after receiving life sentences .
None of the 32 freed on Saturday had been charged in court with any crimes .
All the opposition members had been rounded up after protests over the 2005 elections turned violent .
Ethiopian security forces killed at least 193 people while stopping the protests .
The opposition made its largest gains ever in the 2005 elections .
Opposition groups claimed the elections were rigged to keep Prime Minister Meles Zenawi in power .
Iran 's top nuclear negotiator is in India for talks with senior government officials .
Ali Larijani 's trip comes as the United States , European Union countries and the U.N. nuclear agency are pressing Iran to stop work on nuclear fuel that could also be used to make weapons .
Iran insists it has the right to enrich uranium .
Asked about the dispute Wednesday , Mr. Larijani said it is important for Iran to continue cooperating with the International Atomic Energy Agency , but he said it is up to Iran to decide on the nuclear fuel question .
Mr. Larijani said the focus of his trip to India was on strategic relations , and energy in particular .
India 's foreign minister will travel to Tehran Friday for talks expected to include a proposed gas pipeline between Iran and India .
A report by the European Union says Muslims across Europe are confronting a rise in discrimination and so-called " Islamophobia " .
The study , released by the European Monitoring Center on Racism and Xenophobia Monday , says manifestations of Islamophobia range from verbal threats to physical attacks on people and property .
The report finds that European Muslims are disproportionally represented in areas with poor housing conditions .
It says their education levels are below average and their unemployment rates are higher than average .
Muslims are also found to be overrepresented in low-paying jobs and those that require few qualifications .
The study says the extent of discrimination and Islamophobic incidents against European Muslims remains underdocumented and underreported .
Muslims constitute about 3.5 percent of the population of the 25-nation bloc .
The International Atomic Energy Agency says Iran has produced a gas needed for uranium enrichment .
A former U.N. weapons inspector says Iran has produced enough of this nuclear material to fuel an atomic weapon .
The agency 's findings are part of a confidential report obtained by news agencies Friday .
The U.N. nuclear watchdog said Iran 's nuclear plant in Isfahan has processed about seven tons of uranium hexaflouride gas since resuming work in early August .
That gas can be turned into the key ingredient for a nuclear bomb .
The report said even after two years of U.N. investigation , Iran failed to answer important questions about its secret nuclear activity .
Iran says its nuclear program is a peaceful effort to generate electricity , but critics fear Tehran is secretly working on nuclear weapons .
The International Committee of the Red Cross says rebels from Western Sahara have freed their last Moroccan prisoners of war .
Rebels from the Polisario Front handed over the 404 soldiers Thursday in the southern Algerian town of Tindouf .
They had held many of the Moroccans for two decades .
The rebels said they hoped the release would help clear the way for a peace settlement for Western Sahara .
They also urged Morocco to release any remaining rebel prisoners .
The Red Cross says Thursday 's release follows U.S. mediation .
A senior U.S. senator , Richard Lugar , arrived in Algeria Thursday to monitor the release .
The Polisario Front captured some 2,000 Moroccan troops in its 16-year war with Morocco over the desert territory .
The conflict began when Spain pulled out of the territory in 1975 .
A cease-fire was reached in 1991 .
A newspaper report says the United States has been flying drones over Iran for almost a year , looking for evidence of nuclear weapons programs and weaknesses in air defenses .
In Sunday 's editions , The Washington Post quotes three U.S. officials as saying the U.S. military has been launching the unmanned surveillance flights from Iraq .
There has been no U.S. comment on the report .
An Iranian spokesman Sunday again warned the United States not to attack its nuclear facilities .
He also rejected a European proposal aimed at restricting Tehran 's development of nuclear fuel .
Iran has said in the past it would stop plans to build a heavy water nuclear reactor , which can be used to make nuclear weapons-grade material as well as for nuclear energy .
But Sunday in Tehran , a foreign ministry spokesman said Iran will go forward with the heavy water reactor and will not replace it under any circumstances .
Vietnamese officials say floods have killed at least 77 people in central Vietnam since late last month , and now a new typhoon is approaching .
Typhoon Peipah is working its way across the South China Sea and is expected to dump heavy rains on Vietnam 's central provinces as early as Friday .
Since late October , heavy rains have ravaged parts of central Vietnam , damaging rice crops and forcing schools to close .
State media say at least one million people in the region are facing shortages of clean water and food .
In early October , Typhoon Lekima killed nearly 100 people in the same region .
Peipah passed over the northern tip of the Philippines on Monday , flooding towns and killing at least five people .
Floods and storms kill hundreds of people each year in Vietnam .
Cuban and Chinese military leaders have met in Havana to reaffirm ties between the two communist countries .
In a meeting Saturday at Cuba 's Armed Forces Ministry , the country 's military chief , Raul Castro , stressed the long-standing friendship between the two nations .
He said China 's presence on the island will help strengthen relations between Beijing and Havana .
His Chinese counterpart , General Liang Guanglie , said his visit will help strengthen what he called the " historic " ties between the government , armed forces and people of both countries .
Following the meeting , the high-level Chinese delegation toured a tank base on the outskirts of Havana , where members were given details on the structure , mission and history of the military facility .
The delegation leaves Cuba Sunday .
A pro-Kurdish news agency says Kurdish rebels have extended their unilateral ceasefire with Turkey for two more weeks .
Their original 30-day truce expired on Tuesday .
The notice was published Wednesday by the Mesopotamia news agency , which frequently carries rebel statements .
This ceasefire extension by the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party , known as the PKK , appears timed to coincide with the October 3 start of Turkey 's membership talks with the European Union .
The Associated Press quotes rebels who urged the Turkish government to correctly assess the historic opportunity for peace .
Turkey has repeatedly said it will not enter into direct talks with the PKK .
In announcing the ceasefire last month , the PKK said it would not conduct any operations beyond self-defense .
But Western news reports say rebels clashed twice last week with Turkish soldiers in southeastern Turkey .
Five soldiers were reported killed in the fighting .
Top Israeli and Palestinian security officials are meeting to work out a deal for Israel to hand over security control of several West Bank towns to the Palestinian Authority .
Israeli Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz and Palestinian Mohammed Dahlan began their talks hours after Palestinians say Israeli military gunfire killed a schoolgirl in the Gaza Strip .
Israel is probing the Monday incident , which triggered Palestinian mortar fire into an Israeli settlement near the school where the girl died .
No Israeli casualties were reported .
A short time later , Hamas and other militant groups said they would stick to their pledge to stop attacks on Israelis if the Israeli army does not launch offensive operations .
Meanwhile , U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice met with Israeli diplomats in Washington Monday ahead of her trip to the Middle East later this week .
Japanese officials say the deaths of hundreds of chickens in eastern Japan earlier this year may have been caused by a fresh outbreak of bird flu .
About 430 chickens died between March and May at a poultry farm in Ibaraki prefecture , north of Tokyo .
The farm keeps 25,000 chickens .
A government laboratory is conducting tests to confirm whether the deaths were caused by the virus .
Officials inspected the farm on Saturday , but found no abnormalities .
Japan suffered several outbreaks of bird flu last year .
No one in Japan has yet been infected by the H5N1 avian flu virus that has killed 38 Vietnamese , 12 Thais and four Cambodians since the latest epidemic began in 2003 .
The U.S. special envoy to Sudan , Andrew Natsios , has warned of what he calls a " poisonous " political atmosphere between Sudan 's government in the north and rebels in the south .
Natsios Saturday said the U.S. is deeply concerned about the health of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement signed in 2005 .
He made the comments as he wrapped up a 10-day visit to Sudan .
That agreement ended the two decade-long civil war between the government in Khartoum and southern rebels .
Both sides have been critical of each other over missed deadlines for implementing key parts of the accord .
The agreement makes both sides partners in resolving the conflict in Darfur .
But Natsios said implementation has been made difficult , in part , because both parties are facing one another in elections slated for 2009 .
The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers says it has finished pumping water out of New Orleans , after the southern city flooded as a result of hurricanes Katrina and Rita .
A spokeswoman for the Corps made the announcement Tuesday after working for weeks to pump the water out at a rate of about 15 centimeters per day .
The Corps of Engineers is responsible for New Orleans ' levees and flood walls .
Most of the city is below sea level , and some 80 percent of it flooded after Katrina when water overflowed some flood walls and broke through others .
Some neighborhoods were inundated a second time when Rita brought heavy rains last month .
The Corps spokeswoman said the levees will be repaired to a pre-Katrina level of readiness by next June .
Cypriot President Tassos Papadopoulos has called on the United Nations to move from rhetoric to action when helping developing nations .
Mr. Papadopoulos told the U.N. General Assembly Thursday that the gap between what he calls the haves and the have-nots is widening dramatically .
He said the world body must honor past commitments and work to achieve goals for debt relief , improving access to world markets , and fighting AIDS and other diseases .
Mr. Papadopoulos said detecting the seeds of conflict early and preventing them from blowing up into war should be the cornerstone of U.N. collective security efforts .
Russian President Vladimir Putin says his government will only support proposals on the future of Serbia 's Kosovo province if they are acceptable to both Serbia and ethnic Albanians living in the province .
Mr. Putin spoke Sunday , in the Black Sea resort of Sochi , after talks with German Chancellor Angela Merkel .
His comments came as U.N. envoys prepare to give the U.N. Security Council recommendations on the future of the province .
Ethnic Albanians , who comprise 90 percent of Kosovo 's population , are seeking independence - a push strongly opposed by Belgrade .
Negotiators are expected to present a compromise offering some form of provincial autonomy .
As a member of the Security Council , Russia - a historically close ally of Serbia - is likely to play a key role in Kosovo 's future , because it can use its Council veto to block any deal that does not satisfy Belgrade .
Officials from the International Security Assistance Force say a NATO soldier was killed Saturday during fighting in southern Afghanistan .
NATO officials say four others were wounded in the clash .
Earlier today , the U.S.-led coalition in Afghanistan said several al-Qaida and Taleban fighters were killed in a gunbattle also in the country 's south .
Officials say coalition and Afghan troops came under attack as they approached two compounds in Zabul province where militants were thought to live .
The military says several militant fighters were killed and five were detained in the battle .
Officials said a cache of weapons was discovered and destroyed .
Elsewhere , a local official in Laghman province said a roadside bomb killed a policeman and wounded three others Friday evening .
Violence has increased in recent weeks in southern and eastern Afghanistan , where Taleban insurgents are particularly active .
Keith Richards says he once snorted his father 's ashes mixed with cocaine .
Speaking to the British music magazine " NME , " the 63-year-old Rolling Stones guitarist acknowledges ingesting his father 's cremated remains .
" My dad would n't have cared , " he said , " it went down pretty well , and I 'm still alive . "
Richards ' father , Bert , died at age 84 in 2002 .
The famously hard-living Richards told NME that his survival was the result of luck , and he cautioned young musicians not to emulate him .
" I was number one on the ' who 's likely to die ' list for 10 years , " he said .
" I mean , I was really disappointed when I fell off the list . "
The Islamic militant group Hamas says it has formed its cabinet and will present the choices to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas on Sunday .
Hamas , which won parliamentary elections in January , failed to get any other Palestinian faction to join the new government .
Hamas had planned to meet with Mr. Abbas Saturday .
There is no word on why the plans were changed .
Mr. Abbas 's Fatah Party has refused to join a Hamas-led government , saying the militant group must first renounce violence and accept past peace accords with Israel .
Mr. Abbas has to approve the cabinet , and his aides say he would accept the choices .
Hamas has claimed dozens of suicide attacks against Israeli targets in recent years .
The United States , Israel and Europe classify the group as a terrorist organization .
Iraqi officials say the minister of industry escaped unharmed in a roadside bombing - but the blast killed three of his bodyguards .
The minister 's convoy was hit as it traveled near the town of Balad , north of Baghdad .
Elsewhere , the U.S. military is releasing more than 400 Iraqi detainees including five women prisoners Thursday and Friday .
A military statement says a review of their cases determined there was no reason to keep holding them .
Iraqi and U.S. officials have stressed the move has nothing to do with American journalist Jill Carroll , who was kidnapped earlier this month .
Her kidnappers threatened to kill her by last Friday unless all Iraqi women detainees were released .
The deadline passed with no word on her fate .
Concerns about swine flu have been hurting industries as diverse as airlines and pork production , and boosted demand for the dollar and the yen .
Airlines that were already struggling with a recession that slashed demand must now cope with a sharp fall in travel to Mexico , a popular tourist destination .
Falling demand for jet fuel is putting downward pressure on oil prices .
And pork producers , and the farmers who grow grain to feed pigs , have also seen prices for their commodities drop sharply as some nations banned imports of pork from Mexico and some parts of the United States .
The ban , and the falling prices came even though health experts have said repeatedly that properly cooked pork does not transmit the flu .
Worried traders also sold the Mexican peso and some other currencies , and bought U.S. dollars and Japanese yen for their perceived safety in a crisis .
Israel 's highest court has upheld the government 's plan to withdraw from all of the Gaza Strip and four small West Bank settlements .
An 11-judge High Court panel ruled Thursday the pullout plan is legal and does not violate the human rights of Jewish settlers who opposed the move .
In a 10-Jan vote , the justices rejected 12 petitions challenging the withdrawal planned for August .
The sole dissenting justice , Edmund Levy , said the plan should be canceled .
Hours before the ruling , Israeli Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz and Palestinian Authority Interior Minister Nasser Youssef agreed to closely coordinate the pullout to prevent militants from taking over vacated areas .
Meanwhile , Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas is in the Gaza Strip for talks with militants to preserve a four-month Israeli-Palestinian ceasefire threatened by two days of violence that has killed five people .
The European Union has welcomed the election of Turkish Cypriot Prime Minister Mehmet Ali Talat as the new leader of the Turkish community on Cyprus .
A European Commission statement expressed hope the results will create favorable conditions for resumption of United Nations-sponsored talks on reuniting Cyprus .
Earlier , Mr. Talat called for renewed talks with the island 's Greek Community on Cyprus .
His comments followed his victory in Sunday 's presidential elections in Cyprus 's Turkish northern enclave .
The Mediterranean Island has been divided into two communities since 1974 .
Turkish Cypriots voted last year in favor of a United Nations reunification plan , but Greek Cypriots rejected it .
Mr. Talat will replace Rauf Denktash , who has led the Turkish Cypriot community for decades , but did not seek another term .
Chinese worker sews clothing at a garment factory in Beijing China is criticizing the European Union 's decision to investigate surging imports of Chinese textile products .
In a statement on its web site , the Chinese Commerce Ministry says the EU move runs counter to the spirit of free trade , and could have a negative impact on bilateral relations .
The EU is looking at Chinese textiles flooding into European markets since a worldwide quota system expired January 1 .
The EU says imports of some Chinese textile have risen as much as 500 percent since then .
The probe could lead the EU to impose limits those products .
The United States is also looking into the impact that increased Chinese textile imports is having on its textile producers .
The annual Smithsonian Kite Festival celebrated the art and history of Chinese kites at this year 's event .
Kites large and small ; kite fliers professional and amateur ; Washingtonians as well as visitors from around the world gathered around the Washington Monument to welcome the colorful designs .
For producer Joseph Mok , Elaine Lu has more .
Romania says three Romanian journalists and their Iraqi guide , kidnapped nearly two months in Baghdad , have been freed .
Details were not immediately clear .
But a statement Sunday from the Romanian presidency said the reporters are safe and will soon return home .
The reporters and driver were seized March 28 .
The kidnappers threatened to kill them unless Romania withdrew its small military contingent from Iraq by April 27 .
Romanian President Traian Basescu rejected the demand .
Meanwhile , gunmen today killed the director-general of Iraq 's Trade Ministry , Ali Mousa Salman , as he was driving to work in Baghdad .
His driver also was killed
The Lower House of Russia 's Parliament ( the State Duma ) has voted to give President Vladimir Putin the right to use a special armed forces unit in fighting terrorism abroad .
Tuesday , Mr. Putin sought authorization from the upper house ( the Federation Council ) for similar powers .
Russia 's Itar-Tass news agency quotes the State Duma Security Committee as saying Mr. Putin will have to notify the Federation Council in order to use the special forces unit .
According to the bill , the special forces unit would be required to defend the human rights of Russian citizens .
The bill also authorizes the confiscation of funds , valuables and other property accumulated through terrorism .
Last week , Mr. Putin ordered the special forces to hunt down and destroy those responsible for killing four employees of Russia 's embassy in Baghdad .
They were killed several days after insurgents took them hostage .
Bangladesh 's government is again deploying troops to stop fighting between ethnic groups in the Chittagong Hill Tracts .
Bangladeshi troops were sent to the town of Khagrachhari after 30 people were injured in Tuesday 's clashes involving Bengali Muslim settlers and Buddhist tribespeople .
Officials say about 100 houses were set ablaze in the fighting .
Bangladeshi authorities have imposed a ban on public gatherings in Khagrachhari to restore order .
The violence erupted after tribal activists from the United People 's Democratic Front blocked roads to protest the killing of two tribal people in clashes with Bengali settlers on Saturday .
Earlier clashes in the neighboring town of Baghaichhari also resulted in around 100 homes being torched and prompted the government to deploy troops .
Iraqi authorities say at least 17 people were killed and dozens wounded Monday in a string of car bombings in Baghdad .
Officials said three parked cars exploded within minutes of each other in the predominantly Shi'ite neighborhood of Karradah .
At least three policemen were killed .
A fourth bomb exploded later in central Baghdad .
The bombings came as Iraqi officials prepare to host a meeting Tuesday between U.S. and Iranian officials to discuss the security situation in Iraq .
Washington has accused Iran of stirring up violence in Iraq by supplying weapons to Shi'ite militias - a charge Iran denies .
The U.S. embassy in Baghdad said Ambassador Ryan Crocker will take part in the talks with his Iranian counterpart .
The United States and Iran held their first high-level talks in nearly 30 years in May .
The U.S. State Department said last week it is ready for more talks .
Iraqi interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi says that some top Baath Party officials of Iraq 's deposed regime will go on trial next week .
Mr. Allawi made the announcement Tuesday .
He did not specify which officials will appear in court , nor whether former Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein will be among them .
Speaking to Iraq 's interim National Council , the Prime Minister said a top aide of wanted terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi has been killed and that two others have been captured .
Mr. Allawi also said investigators have discovered a new mass grave that may contain about 500 bodies .
He said the grave was found in a city northeast of Baghdad .
He gave no other details about the gravesite .
Russia has extradited a Bosnian Serb war crimes suspect who was hiding in Siberia until authorities detained him last year .
The Bosnian State Court said Dragan Zelenovic was handed over late Thursday .
He is expected to appear before a judge later Friday .
The former policeman is wanted by the U.N. war crimes tribunal in The Hague for atrocities committed against Bosnian Muslims in the eastern Foca region during Bosnia-Herzegovina 's 1992 - 95 war .
Zelenovic had lived in Khanty-Mansiisk , some 2,000 kilometers east of Moscow , for several years under an assumed name and had worked in the construction industry .
The U.S. government says BP has agreed to pay a record fine of more than $ 50 million for failing to correct problems at a Texas oil refinery that exploded and killed 15 workers in 2005 .
The company is still contesting about $ 30 million in other fines in connection with the fiery blast that injured 170 people .
U.S. regulators say they found hundreds of safety violations at the BP refinery when they inspected it in 2009 .
They also say the company failed to make promised changes and repairs at the refinery near Houston , Texas .
The 2005 refinery explosion is separate from this year 's environmental disaster that grew out of an explosion and fire on a BP oil drilling platform in the Gulf of Mexico .
Poland has pursued a policy of economic liberalization since 1990 and today stands out as a success story among transition economies .
It is the only country in the European Union to maintain positive GDP growth through the 2008 - 2009 economic downturn .
GDP per capita is still much below the EU average , but is similar to that of the three Baltic states .
Since 2004 , EU membership and access to EU structural funds have provided a major boost to the economy .
Unemployment fell rapidly to 6.4 % in October 2008 , but climbed back to 11.8 % for the year 2010 , exceeding the EU average by more than 2 % .
Inflation reached a low of about 2.6 % in 2010 due to the global economic slowdown but has since climbed and is expected to remain around 3 % , and close to the upper limit of the National Bank of Poland 's target rate .
Poland 's economic performance could improve over the longer term if the country addresses some of the remaining deficiencies in its road and rail infrastructure and its business environment .
An inefficient commercial court system , a rigid labor code , bureaucratic red tape , burdensome tax system , and persistent low-level corruption keep the private sector from performing up to its full potential .
Rising demands to fund health care , education , and the state pension system caused the public sector budget deficit to rise to 7.9 % of GDP in 2010 .
The PO/PSL coalition government , which came to power in November 2007 , has planned to reduce the budget deficit in 2011 and has also announced its intention to enact business-friendly reforms , increase workforce participation , reduce public sector spending growth , lower taxes , and accelerate privatization .
The government has moved slowly on most major reforms , but has sped up privatization .
Half the population still depends on agriculture and livestock for a livelihood , even though many of the nomads and subsistence farmers were forced into the cities by recurrent droughts in the 1970s and 1980s .
Mauritania has extensive deposits of iron ore , which account for nearly 40 % of total exports .
The nation 's coastal waters are among the richest fishing areas in the world but overexploitation by foreigners threatens this key source of revenue .
The country 's first deepwater port opened near Nouakchott in 1986 .
Before 2000 , drought and economic mismanagement resulted in a buildup of foreign debt .
In February 2000 , Mauritania qualified for debt relief under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries ( HIPC ) initiative and nearly all of its foreign debt has since been forgiven .
A new investment code approved in December 2001 improved the opportunities for direct foreign investment .
Mauritania and the IMF agreed to a three-year Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility ( PRGF ) arrangement in 2006 .
Mauritania made satisfactory progress , but the IMF , World Bank , and other international actors suspended assistance and investment in Mauritania after the August 2008 coup .
Since the presidential election in July 2009 , donors have resumed assistance .
Oil prospects , while initially promising , have largely failed to materialize , and the government has placed a priority on attracting private investment to spur economic growth .
The Government also emphasizes reduction of poverty , improvement of health and education , and privatization of the economy .
Over the past 20 years the government has transformed New Zealand from an agrarian economy dependent on concessionary British market access to a more industrialized , free market economy that can compete globally .
This dynamic growth has boosted real incomes - but left behind some at the bottom of the ladder - and broadened and deepened the technological capabilities of the industrial sector .
Per capita income rose for ten consecutive years until 2007 in purchasing power parity terms , but fell in 2008 - 9 .
Debt-driven consumer spending drove robust growth in the first half of the decade , helping fuel a large balance of payments deficit that posed a challenge for economic managers .
Inflationary pressures caused the central bank to raise its key rate steadily from January 2004 until it was among the highest in the OECD in 2007 - 8 ; international capital inflows attracted to the high rates further strengthened the currency and housing market , however , aggravating the current account deficit .
The economy fell into recession before the start of the global financial crisis and contracted for five consecutive quarters in 2008 - 9 .
In line with global peers , the central bank cut interest rates aggressively and the government developed fiscal stimulus measures .
The economy posted a 1.7 % decline in 2009 , but pulled out of recession late in the year , and achieved 2.1 % growth in 2010 .
Nevertheless , key trade sectors remain vulnerable to weak external demand .
The government plans to raise productivity growth and develop infrastructure , while reining in government spending .
Independent from France in 1960 , Mauritania annexed the southern third of the former Spanish Sahara ( now Western Sahara ) in 1976 but relinquished it after three years of raids by the Polisario guerrilla front seeking independence for the territory .
Maaouya Ould Sid Ahmed TAYA seized power in a coup in 1984 and ruled Mauritania with a heavy hand for more than two decades .
A series of presidential elections that he held were widely seen as flawed .
A bloodless coup in August 2005 deposed President TAYA and ushered in a military council that oversaw a transition to democratic rule .
Independent candidate Sidi Ould Cheikh ABDALLAHI was inaugurated in April 2007 as Mauritania 's first freely and fairly elected president .
His term ended prematurely in August 2008 when a military junta led by General Mohamed Ould Abdel AZIZ deposed him and ushered in a military council government .
AZIZ was subsequently elected president in July 2009 and sworn in the following month .
The country continues to experience ethnic tensions among its black population ( Afro-Mauritanians ) and white and black Moor ( Arab-Berber ) communities , and is having to confront a growing terrorism threat by al-Qa'ida in the Islamic Maghreb ( AQIM ) .
A NUMBER of Flies were attracted to a jar of honey which had been overturned in a housekeeper 's room , and placing their feet in it , ate greedily .
Their feet , however , became so smeared with the honey that they could not use their wings , nor release themselves , and were suffocated .
Just as they were expiring , they exclaimed , " O foolish creatures that we are , for the sake of a little pleasure we have destroyed ourselves . "
Pleasure bought with pains , hurts .
THE MONKEY , it is said , has two young ones at each birth .
The Mother fondles one and nurtures it with the greatest affection and care , but hates and neglects the other .
It happened once that the young one which was caressed and loved was smothered by the too great affection of the Mother , while the despised one was nurtured and reared in spite of the neglect to which it was exposed .
The best intentions will not always ensure success .
There 's nothing I like better than the sound of a banjo , unless of course it 's the sound of a chicken caught in a vacuum cleaner .
President Bush is on his way to Canada for a two-day trip that will mark his first official visit to America 's northern neighbor .
The visit is widely seen as an effort to repair relations damaged by trade issues and Canada 's refusal to send troops to Iraq .
Tuesday , Mr. Bush will meet with Prime Minister Paul Martin in the Canadian capital , Ottawa .
The White House says the two leaders will likely discuss at least one of the main trade disputes - U.S. restrictions on the import of Canadian beef .
Anti-Bush protesters are expected to rally in both Ottawa and the coastal city of Halifax , which the president will visit on Wednesday .
Mr. Bush is going to Halifax to thank people who housed air travelers diverted during the September 11 , 2001 , terrorist attacks .
The Israeli military says its forces have killed two Palestinian militants in the northern Gaza Strip .
The military said Thursday that Israeli aircraft and tanks fired at the militants near a border fence .
It said Israeli soldiers later recovered the bodies of two armed men in the area .
The military identified the men as members of the Islamic Jihad organization .
No Palestinian militant groups have commented on the incident .
Iraqi insurgents have released two French journalists taken hostage last August .
In Paris , French Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin announced the release to parliament Tuesday , a short while after the al-Jazeera television network first reported it .
The journalists , Christian Chesnot and Georges Malbrunot , were kidnapped in August while heading south from Baghdad on the road to Najaf .
An insurgent group calling itself the Islamic Army of Iraq originally threatened to kill the two unless France lifted a ban on Islamic headscarves in public schools .
But earlier this week , French Foreign Minister Michel Barnier said he believed the two reporters were still alive and in good health .
The two reporters were kidnapped August 19 by an insurgent group calling itself the Islamic Army of Iraq .
Insurgents originally threatened to kill the hostages unless France lifted a ban on Islamic headscarves in public schools .
The U.S. military says it has filed charges against two U.S. soldiers in the killing of an Iraqi civilian last February .
The military said Sunday Specialist Nathan B. Lynn was charged with voluntary manslaughter for allegedly shooting an unarmed man February 15 .
The military says Lynn and Sergeant Milton Ortiz were charged with obstruction of justice for allegedly conspiring with another soldier who has been accused of placing an AK-47 near the body of the mortally wounded man .
Ortiz has also been charged with assault in a separate incident in March .
The U.S. military has come under scrutiny concerning a number of incidents of abuse of Iraqis since the U.S.-led invasion in March 2003 .
A U.S. court has sentenced a former CIA contractor to more than eight years in prison for assaulting an Afghan prisoner who later died .
The court in North Carolina sentenced David Passaro Tuesday to eight years and four months in jail for the assault of Afghan detainee Abdul Wali in 2003 .
Prosecutors accused Passaro of beating the detainee during an interrogation at a U.S. military base in Afghanistan .
Wali died of his injuries two days after the incident .
U.S. officials said Wali was a suspect in frequent rocket attacks on the base .
Passaro is the first U.S. civilian to be charged with abusing a detainee during the U.S. wars in Iraq and Afghanistan .
Britain has requested the extradition of a man arrested in Pakistan in the alleged plot to blow up U.S.-bound airliners over the Atlantic .
A Pakistani Foreign Ministry spokeswoman says Monday authorities are considering the request for extradition of Rashid Rauf .
She said he was being investigated for possible links to the al-Qaida terrorist network .
British authorities have identified Rauf , a British citizen of Pakistani descent , as a key suspect in the bombing plot .
British authorities arrested more than two dozen suspects earlier this month in connection with the plot , which prosecutors said was in an advanced stage of planning .
Authorities said plotters sought to bomb as many as 10 airliners .
Last week , British prosecutors said they had seized bomb-making materials , suicide notes and martyrdom videos in the probe .
Authorities also referred to data from 400 computers and 20 cell phones .
A U.S. military court has sentenced an Army sergeant to death for murdering two of his comrades and wounding 14 others in a grenade and rifle attack two years ago in Kuwait .
The 15-member military jury in Fort Bragg , in the U.S. state of North Carolina ruled Thursday Sergeant Hasan Akbar , a member of the Army 's 101st Airborne Division , should be executed for ambushing the troops as they slept in tents at the start of the Iraq war .
His death sentence will be automatically appealed .
If Akbar is put to death , it would be by lethal injection .
His military lawyers claimed that constant ridicule over his being a black Muslim caused him to snap , triggering the attack .
The United Nations says Iran has refused to allow nuclear inspectors to revisit a suspect military site .
In a report to the International Atomic Energy Agency Friday in Vienna , inspectors say Iran recently refused to grant them access to its Parchin military base , where Washington says Tehran is simulating atomic weapons tests .
Deputy Director General for Safeguards Pierre Goldschmidt said Iranian officials claimed the previous visit in January had fulfilled inspectors ' demands .
He said the country also had delayed reporting an extensive tunnel system under construction beneath a uranium conversion plant in the central city of Isfahan .
Mr. Goldschmidt also said Iran continues to build a heavy water reactor which can produce plutonium , despite requests to cease construction .
Iran 's representative at the IAEA meeting said Tehran intends to keep producing nuclear fuel for peaceful purposes .
Afghan officials say a NATO airstrike has killed 13 Taleban militants after the insurgents attacked a government building near the Pakistan border .
Authorities said Saturday the militants attacked the district government headquarters in Alishar in southeastern Khost province late Friday .
A gun battle broke out with Afghan police , who called for NATO air support .
Five policemen were wounded .
Khost Governor Arsala Jamal says the Taleban militants were killed as they retreated .
On Friday , the governor of southern Ghazni province , Mirajuddin Patan told VOA that 100 Afghan troops drove the Taleban from Giro District a day after the militants had taken control of the area .
Over the past year , a resurgent Taleban movement carried out the highest number of suicide bombings and other attacks in Afghanistan since U.S.-led forces ousted the Taleban government in November 2001 .
A group of climate researchers says there is evidence that global warming is causing the Antarctic ice cap to melt more quickly than it did 10 years ago .
The scientists said Monday they used satellite data to monitor the Antarctic coastline .
They found the ice sheet on the Earth 's southern pole lost 59 percent more ice in 2006 than it did in 1996 .
The researchers say western antarctica lost 132 billion tons of ice in 2006 , enough to raise worldwide sea levels by 0.5 millimeter .
The team 's leader , Eric Rignot of NASA 's Jet Propulsion Laboratory , said warmer temperatures appear to be accelerating the movement of coastal Antarctic glaciers into the sea .
The researchers say their findings may cause scientists to revise their predictions about rising sea levels around the world .
Police in Corpus Christi , Texas , have cleared Vice President Dick Cheney of any wrongdoing in the shooting of a fellow hunter last Saturday .
The sheriff of Kenedy County , Ramon Salinas said Thursday an investigation had determined that Cheney shot Texas lawyer Harry Whittington by accident .
The sheriff said no legal action was necessary , and the case was closed .
Cheney said Wednesday he accepted full responsibility for accidentally shooting Whittington , but defended his decision not to disclose the incident for nearly 24 hours .
The vice president said he wanted to wait to be sure that the information released was accurate .
President Bush said he is satisfied with the way Cheney handled the aftermath of a hunting accident .
Mr. Bush said Thursday he thought his vice president gave a " very strong " and " powerful explanation " of events .
The U.S. military says it has released more than 11,000 Iraqis from military detention centers this year .
In a statement issued Saturday coalition forces said the prisoners who were once considered a security threat , have completed their detainment and can go on to lead productive lives .
American military spokesman Major Neal Fisher says less than one percent of those released have been detained again .
He also said at the current rate , the U.S. military expects to reach its goal of having released more than 12,000 detainees by mid-September .
India says it would consider granting autonomy to the disputed region of Kashmir to help make peace with Pakistan , but added it will not redraw its borders .
India 's Foreign Minister Natwar Singh said at a news conference Thursday , that as far as regional autonomy is concerned , " the sky is the limit . "
Mr. Singh also said a solution based on autonomy in Kashmir would require " a great deal of hard work , goodwill and trust " between the two sides and would not happen overnight .
The Indian minister said he presented this option to Pakistani Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz , who ended a visit to New Delhi on Wednesday .
Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has also said India would never agree to redraw its borders to resolve the dispute over Kashmir .
But Pakistan insists it can not accept the military Line of Control in the region as an international border .
The U.S. military in Iraq has charged a former commander of a U.S. prison in Baghdad with several counts of wrongdoing , including unauthorized possession of classified information .
The military announced the charges against Lieutenant-Colonel William Steele in a statement issued Thursday .
One charge is of aiding the enemy by providing a unmonitored cell phone to detainees .
Steele is also accused of wrongfully providing special privileges to and maintaining an inappropriate relationship with an interpreter .
Earlier , a military spokeswoman Lt. Col. Josslyn Aberle said Steele was taken into custody a month ago , and is being held at a detention facility in Kuwait awaiting a hearing to determine whether he should face court-martial .
Steele was commander of Camp Cropper prison , which holds about 5,300 detainees near Baghdad international airport .
Former Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein , who was executed in December , spent time in that facility during his three-year incarceration .
Israeli forces have killed three Palestinians in a pair of operations in the Gaza Strip .
Military officials said troops shot and killed a man walking near the Israeli border in central Gaza Saturday .
Earlier , Israeli tanks backed by helicopters raided the northern Gaza town of Beit Hanoun .
Israeli officials said two men were killed in a shoot-out between troops and Palestinian gunmen .
Israeli forces have been operating in Gaza since militants abducted an Israeli soldier in June .
An Egyptian newspaper , Al-Ahram , quoted President Hosni Mubarak as saying negotiations were under way to free the soldier .
Meanwhile , tens of thousands of Palestinian teachers and other government employees went on strike in the West Bank and Gaza Strip to demand unpaid salaries .
Fatah gunmen surrounded schools to enforce the strike , while Hamas militiamen tried to keep schools open .
Preparations for the inauguration of Barack Obama as the next president have been going on for weeks in Washington .
The viewing stands at the Capitol have been constructed , the parade route is being readied , and people in the city are in a mood of anticipation .
Here 's a look at those preparations and what people are talking about now that Inauguration Day , January 20 , is near .
For more , click on video link .
The Afghan government has rejected any conditions for peace talks with the Taleban , after the Islamist militants demanded the withdrawal of all foreign troops from the country .
Presidential spokesman Homayun Hamidzada said Tuesday the Afghan government is not open to any negotiations with preconditions .
He added that the only promise the government will make is for the safety of rebel negotiators .
A Taleban spokesman told Reuters News agency that the group is sticking to its demands .
Last week , the Taleban expressed a willingness for negotiations only if all of the 50,000 foreign troops in Afghanistan leave the country .
The Taleban was ousted from power in Afghanistan by a U.S.-led offensive in late 2001 .
Militant attacks in southern and eastern Afghanistan have escalated over the past 19 months , marking the bloodiest period since the beginning of the war .
Hong Kong 's interim leader says he will ask China to interpret the section of the territory 's Basic Law that covers the term length for its chief executive .
Donald Tsang says he is making the request to avoid legal challenges that could derail the July 10 election to pick a successor to Tung Chee-hwa , who resigned last month with two years remaining on his five-year term .
The Hong Kong government says Mr. Tung 's successor will only serve out those two years , but pro-democracy activists say that violates the city 's Basic Law , which says each elected chief executive will serve a full five-year term .
The opposition fears that Beijing 's involvement could compromise the territory 's autonomy .
Mr. Tsang is expected to win the July vote .
Iraq 's ambassador to the United Nations is calling for the lifting of all remaining sanctions imposed on the ousted regime of Saddam Hussein .
Ambassador Samir Sumaidaie made the appeal Tuesday - two days after his country voted in landmark elections .
He said all sanctions placed on the previous regime are inappropriate now since Iraq has clearly shown the world that it is a new country and wants to be at peace with its neighbors .
The Iraqi diplomat said it is also time to begin phasing out the use of oil proceeds to compensate victims of Iraq 's 1990 invasion of Kuwait , and lift the arms embargo imposed shortly after that invasion .
Meanwhile , more than 200 workers at Iraq 's election headquarters in Baghdad are compiling results from Sunday 's historic vote .
A U.S.-funded radio station says its correspondent in Iraq has been killed .
Radio Free Iraq said Friday Khamail Khalaf was found dead in Baghdad Thursday .
She had been missing for two days amid fears she had been kidnapped .
More than 150 members of the news media have been killed in Iraq since the war began in 2003 .
U.S. military officials in Iraq have reduced the death toll from a suicide bombing Friday from 27 to 12 .
Police said a suicide bomber driving a truck with chlorine gas detonated his vehicle in Ramadi , the capital of volatile al-Anbar province .
A military statement says 43 people were wounded .
The military also says the Iraqi army called in air strikes Saturday against armed militia men in Diwaniyah , south of Baghdad , one day after U.S. and Iraqi forces detained 27 suspects and killed three insurgents in the city .
British Prime Minister Tony Blair says his country and the United States will send a team to Iraq to reassess the security situation there .
In a televised interview Sunday , Mr. Blair said the team will focus only on security .
He added that it was crucial to strengthen Iraqi security forces so that they can take over .
Meanwhile , Britain 's Telegraph newspaper reports London will announce this week that it is sending 650 additional troops to Iraq to boost security ahead of the January 30 elections .
Speaking on the television network ABC , U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell expressed concern about the future of Iraq following the elections , but said the vote is the necessary next step .
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan calls Iraqi voters courageous , and says the world must support them .
Speaking in Nigeria , Mr. Annan described Sunday 's election as the first step in a democratic process in Iraq .
He said Iraqis know they are voting for their country 's future and for the day " when they will take their destiny in their own hands . "
The secretary-general also appealed for an end to election-day violence .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has criticized Syria for creating instability in Lebanon , where a second politician was killed Tuesday .
Ms. Rice said she does not know who is responsible for the attack that killed George Hawi in Beirut , but she called on Syria to end destabilizing activities there .
Ms. Rice spoke to reporters aboard a plane to Brussels , where she is to attend a conference aimed at gathering international support for Iraq 's new government .
The conference will also include Iraqi leaders , officials from more than 80 nations and United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan .
Monday , Ms. Rice visited Saudi Arabia for the last stop of a Middle East trip , where she renewed a call for democratic reform .
Philippine officials say heavy rain in mountainous provinces in the north of the country have triggered landslides , killing more than 90 people .
The northern Philippines has been pounded by heavy rain since Typhoon Parma hit the country on Saturday .
Forecasters say Parma was still lingering off the northeastern coast of the Philippines , as it began moving across the South China Sea toward Vietnam .
Parma is the second major storm to hit the country in two weeks .
Officials say the landslides have pushed the overall death toll from two weeks of devastating storms on the islands past 450 .
Meanwhile in Japan , a separate powerful typhoon tore through the main island Thursday , peeling roofs off houses , and cutting off electricity to hundreds of thousands .
The storm has killed at least four people .
Elephants in tsunami-devastated Thailand have joined the country 's massive recovery work , one week after another group of elephants staged a dramatic rescue operation .
Thai officials say six jumbo elephants are now helping to tow heavy objects and pull away debris that heavy machinery can not reach .
Elephants also played a crucial role before the tsunami hit .
Reuters news agency says eight elephants used for tourist rides at the Khao Lak beach resort became agitated last Sunday , more than an hour before the tsunami came ashore .
The beasts began crying , or " trumpeting , " and finally broke free of their chains , heading for a nearby hill .
Their trainers followed .
As the elephants fled , they lifted tourists onto their backs with their trunks , taking them to safety .
Scientists note animals often appear to sense the coming of natural calamities .
Supporters of Pakistan 's suspended chief justice have taken to the streets in a show of solidarity .
Supporters of Judge Iftikhar Mohammed Chaudhry chanted slogans Saturday demanding the resignation of Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf .
They rallied as the chief justice traveled from Islamabad to the eastern city of Faisalabad .
General Musharraf fired Chaudhry in March , accusing him of abuse of power .
The judge denies the charges and has challenged the president 's decision in the Supreme Court .
His dismissal has fueled the biggest opposition to President Musharraf since the general seized power in a bloodless coup in 1999 .
Tens of thousands of people have rallied in support of the judge as he traveled to various rallies across the country since he was fired .
Last minute holiday shoppers are taking advantage of massive discounts as retailers launch a last desperate attempt to generate revenue .
With holiday sales shaping up to be the weakest in years , retailers are scrambling to stay ahead of the struggling U.S. economy .
Former Liberian Finance Minister Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf has moved closer to becoming Africa 's first democratically-elected female president , taking a strong lead in Liberia 's presidential run-off .
With nearly two-thirds of the ballots counted , Mrs. Johnson-Sirleaf leads with 56 percent of the votes .
Her opponent , millionaire former soccer ( football ) star George Weah , has 44 percent .
Mr. Weah raised allegations of election fraud Wednesday , saying there were major irregularities during Tuesday 's run-off election .
Election officials said Mr. Weah has not submitted any evidence to the electoral commission to support his claims .
This was Liberia 's first election since 2003 , when Charles Taylor stepped down as president under international pressure , ending 14 years of almost non-stop civil war .
Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter is resting comfortably after being hospitalized in the midwestern U.S. city of Cleveland , Ohio .
A statement from the Carter Center in the southeastern city of Atlanta , Georgia , says the former president developed an upset stomach during a flight to Cleveland Tuesday .
A spokeswoman at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport says rescue crews met Mr. Carter 's plane at the airport and took him to the hospital .
The former president was in Cleveland to sign his new book , White House Diary .
The Carter Center says he is expected to resume his book tour later this week .
Mr. Carter is 85-years-old and served as U.S. president from 1977 to 1981 .
U.S. President Barack Obama said he plans to call Mr. Carter to check on his condition .
A prominent human rights group has called on the United Nations and the Democratic Republic of Congo to disarm rebel Rwandan armed groups in eastern Congo .
In a report Wednesday , the New York-based Human Rights Watch ( HRW ) also said that the safety of civilians must be ensured during the operations .
The rights group said efforts to disarm the rebels , mostly ethnic Hutus , in early November failed after they refused to cooperate .
The rebels , generally called Ex-FAR ( members of the former Rwandan army ) and Interahamwe , are mostly responsible for the 1994 Rwandan genocide that killed about 8,00,000 people during a three-month period .
Human Rights Watch 's senior Africa advisor , Alison Des Forges , says disarming Rwandan rebel groups is crucial for regional stability .
Rwanda has threatened to go after the rebels if they are not disarmed .
" Undercover Brother " may be good at karate , but his driving needs improvement .
Comedian Eddie Griffin crashed a Ferrari Enzo sportscar worth an estimated $ 1.5 million .
The March 26 accident occurred at Irwindale Speedway in California , when the movie comic drove too fast around a curve .
He was practicing for a charity race to promote his upcoming movie Redline .
Eddie Griffin , whose film credits include Undercover Brother and two Deuce Bigalow movies , walked away unhurt from the crash .
The car belonged to Redline executive producer Daniel Sadek , whose exotic car collection is featured in the movie .
Ferrari produced a total of 400 Enzos between 2002 and 2004 .
Russia 's natural gas monopoly Gazprom has warned Ukraine against siphoning off gas intended for Europe .
Gazprom Deputy Chairman Alexander Medvedev said Sunday that Ukrainian officials had made threats to tap natural gas from a pipeline running through Ukrainian territory , if supplies intended for Ukraine are cut off .
The two sides have failed to resolve a dispute over Moscow 's demand that Ukraine pay more than quadruple the current price for gas imports from Russia .
Gazprom threatened to halt gas deliveries to Ukraine on January first unless Kiev agrees to its new pricing structure .
Gazprom held an exercise Friday simulating such a stoppage .
Ukraine says such a sharp increase would harm its economy .
Both sides say they may turn to an international arbitration court for help .
The Anheuser-Busch brewing company - bottler of Budweiser beer - will continue to sponsor the FIFA World Cup tournament through 2014 .
Anheuser-Busch and the International Football Federation signed a contract extension agreement Thursday , meaning Budweiser also will have global sponsorship rights for the Confederations Cup tournament in 2009 and 2013 .
FIFA President Sepp Blatter said the agreement is testimony to the immense appeal of football .
A spokesman for Anheuser-Busch said the deal will allow the company to connect its brand with millions of adult beer drinkers and football fans .
Anheuser-Busch , based in St. Louis , Missouri the United States , has the exclusive beer contract for this year 's World Cup in Germany .
By 2014 , the brewer will have sponsored eight World Cup tournaments .
Former Venezuelan President Rafael Caldera died early Thursday at the age of 93 .
He had suffered from Parkinson 's disease for many years .
Mr. Caldera served two terms as president - the first between 1969 and 1974 , and again from 1994 to 1999 .
He entered politics in the 1930s , and helped to found the Social-Christian Copei party in 1946 .
In 1994 , he pardoned current President Hugo Chavez , who was in prison at the time for leading a coup two years earlier .
Mr. Chavez succeeded Mr. Caldera as president in 1999 .
Mr. Caldera 's son said the funeral will take place Saturday and that the family " will not accept any homage from the government of Hugo Chavez . "
China says the next round of six-party talks on North Korean 's nuclear program will last for three days .
The official news agency , Xinhua , says the talks will begin Wednesday at the Diaoyu State Guest House in Beijing and last through Friday .
This is the fifth round of talks involving China , the two Koreas , the United States , Russia and Japan .
All sides have agreed that North Korea would scrap its nuclear programs in exchange for energy assistance and other benefits .
However , sharp differences among the parties remain .
After the previous round ended in September , Pyongyang said it will not disarm unless it is first given a civilian ( light-water ) nuclear reactor to generate electricity .
U.S. officials said the demand is not acceptable .
A U.S. military investigation has concluded that a suicide bomber wearing an Iraqi uniform carried out the deadly attack in a dining tent at an American base in Mosul last December , killing 22 people .
Major General David Rodriguez Friday said the bomber apparently entered the base at an unguarded point on its perimeter .
He said investigators did not know if the attacker was a member of the Iraqi security forces , or was wearing a stolen or counterfeit uniform .
General Rodriguez said the bomber was believed to be a member of the Ansar al-Sunna terrorist group , which claimed responsibility for the December 21 attack - the deadliest on U.S. forces since the U.S.-led invasion in March , 2003 .
The group has also claimed responsibility for several other large profile attacks , including this month 's roadside bombing south of Haditha that killed 14 U.S. Marines .
Former Cuban president Fidel Castro has appeared at a special session of parliament for the first time since 2006 , when he ceded power to his younger brother , Raul .
Cheering legislators gave the elder Castro a standing ovation as he entered the legislative chamber in an event broadcast on Cuban television Saturday .
The 83-year-old former president was wearing an olive-green military style shirt and waved to the crowd .
Mr. Castro spoke about the international situation and how growing tensions between the United States and Iran could lead to nuclear war .
Mr. Castro turns 84 later this month , and has recently increased his public appearances following a long period of seclusion , resulting from an illness suffered in 2006 .
Fidel Castro underwent intestinal surgery that year and turned over power on a provisional basis to his brother , who formally assumed the presidency in February 2008 .
A top Israeli official says Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has approved the final placement of a barrier around Jerusalem that would encompass a controversial Jewish settlement on Palestinian-claimed land .
Deputy Prime Minister Ehud Olmert told Israeli radio Mr. Sharon approved the plan late Sunday after meeting with top officials .
The enclosed Israeli area would include the largest Israeli settlement in the West Bank - Maaleh Adumim .
Israel says the wall will help keep out militants .
Palestinians say Israel has used the barrier issue as an excuse to grab land .
The approval comes as U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan meets with Israeli and Palestinian officials to encourage peace talks between the two sides .
Meanwhile , Israeli and Palestinian security chiefs are preparing for more talks on the Israeli handover of five West Bank towns to Palestinian security control .
Israel 's Supreme Court has ruled that Palestinian residents of the West Bank and Gaza can sue Israel for damages caused by the Israeli military in non-combat operations .
The court nullified a law passed by the Israeli parliament last year that granted the state immunity from all Palestinian damage lawsuits against the Israeli military .
Israel 's government applied the law retroactively to the start of the current Palestinian uprising in 2000 .
Several human rights groups petitioned the Supreme Court about the law , arguing Israel is responsible for the well-being of Palestinians as an occupying power .
The court partially agreed with the petition , but ruled that Palestinians can not sue for damages caused by Israeli forces during combat operations .
The judges also ruled that citizens of an enemy state and members of terrorist groups are not eligible for any compensation from Israel .
The Nigerian government says five cabinet ministers have left their posts so that they can run for elected positions next year .
Government officials say the ministers of the interior , culture and tourism , commerce , sports and intergovernmental affairs have left their offices .
President Olusegun Obasanjo has submitted a list to parliament to replace the ministers .
The resignations are the latest government shifts in the run-up to next year 's general elections .
Two days ago , Mr. Obasanjo replaced three top military chiefs and his national security adviser .
The shuffle comes weeks after the defeat in parliament of a measure that would have allowed Mr. Obasanjo to run for a third term .
European Union lawmakers have rejected a controversial budget deal reached at an EU summit last month and have called for further talks on the issue .
At a plenary session Wednesday in Strasbourg , France , the European Parliament voted overwhelmingly , 541 to 76 against the $ 1 trillion EU budget for 2007 - 2013 .
Lawmakers critical of the deal said it fell short of the budget proposed by the European Parliament last June .
Austria 's Chancellor Wolfgang Schuessel , whose country holds the rotating EU presidency , said there is room to maneuver so a compromise can be reached .
British Prime Minister Tony Blair , who presided over last month 's EU summit , had called the proposed budget a fair deal .
Some of the lawmakers insisted the budget does not provide sufficient aid for EU members .
The World Health Organization has confirmed that a one-year-old girl has become the 23rd person in Indonesia to die of the H5N1 bird flu virus .
WHO officials say the girl died about a week ago at a Jakarta hospital .
Indonesia has seen more deaths from the virus than any other nation except Vietnam .
Meanwhile , health officials in Jordan Friday confirmed that nation 's first human case of bird flu .
They say a 31-year-old Egyptian worker is being treated and is in good condition .
On Thursday , health authorities in Afghanistan began investigating the deaths of three children from the same family on suspicion they might have died of bird flu .
The deadly form of bird flu has killed more than 100 people since 2003 , mostly in East Asia .
It has recently spread to Europe , Africa and the Middle East .
U.S. President-elect Barack Obama is encouraging Americans to come together to help renew the U.S. economy and " make a new beginning " for the country .
During his weekly radio address released early Thursday for Thanksgiving , Mr. Obama reminded U.S. citizens that this year 's holiday comes at a difficult time .
He said that his newly announced economic team is working hard to confront an economic crisis of historic proportions .
But the president-elect said policies alone will not revive the U.S. economy .
He said it also will take " the hard work , innovation , service and strength of the American people . "
Mr. Obama thanked members of the armed forces and their families for their service and sacrifice .
The president-elect is spending the holiday in Chicago , Illinois , with his wife , Michelle , and their daughters .
Tens of thousands of people rallied across Taiwan Sunday as political parties stepped up campaigning ahead of next Saturday 's parliamentary election .
In Taipei , supporters of the pro-independence Taiwan Solidarity Union , an ally of President Chen Shui-bian 's party , waved placards of their candidates and chanted independence slogans .
Nearby , thousands of backers of the opposition Nationalists marched for improved ties with mainland China .
President Chen is hoping to achieve a majority in the 225-seat legislature so he can push though what he calls needed constitutional reforms .
The Nationalist Party and its coalition partner , the People First Party , currently hold a slim majority .
Beijing has denounced the planned constitutional amendments , saying they are a pretext for declaring formal independence , an act China says will trigger a war .
Serbia 's special war crimes prosecutor has announced the indictment of another suspect in the 1991 massacre of more than 200 Croat civilians outside the Croatian city of Vukovar .
Authorities arrested Sasa Radak last month in Montenegro .
He joins 17 other suspects on trial before a special court in connection with the deaths at the Ovcara pig farm outside Vukovar .
Prosecutors say Yugoslav troops took the 200 patients from Vukovar hospital after capturing the Croatian city in November 1991 .
They say the bodies were later discovered at the farm .
The Hague war crimes tribunal has indicted three Yugoslav army officers for their role in the deaths .
Tribunal prosecutors have now suggested that their cases be transferred to local courts either in Croatia or Serbia .
Rwandan police have arrested a journalist accused of comparing President Paul Kagame to Nazi Germany 's leader Adolf Hitler .
Saidati Mukakibibi is the second journalist from the independent newspaper Umurabyo arrested in the past week .
The Reuters news agency quotes a police spokesman as saying Mukakibibi wrote articles comparing the president with Hitler .
He said the articles were accompanied by a photo of Mr. Kagame in front of a Nazi swastika that the publishers had inserted in the picture .
Last week , authorities arrested Umurabyo editor Agnes Uwimana on allegations of civil disobedience .
Rights groups say the arrests are an attempt by the Rwandan government to clamp down on independent media ahead of next month 's elections .
The government denies the allegations .
Chinese President Hu Jintao called for progress in six party talks on North Korea 's nuclear program during a meeting with his South Korean counterpart Saturday .
South Korean President Lee Myung-bak met with the Chinese leader in Beijing while attending the Olympics .
Mr. Hu said he hoped for improved communication and coordination among the countries involved in the six party talks ( among China , South Korea , Japan , Russia , the United States and North Korea ) aimed at dismantling North Korea 's nuclear program ) .
And he urged moving the talks to what he called " a new stage . "
The two leaders also discussed developing a " strategic partnership " between China and South Korea .
Mr. Hu is scheduled to make a state visit to South Korea in the coming weeks .
U.S. stock market indexes dropped sharply as Friday 's trading got underway .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average was off 1.3 percent , the S & P 500 lost 1.7 percent , while the NASDAQ fell 2.1 percent .
European stock markets were higher in afternoon trading .
London 's Financial Times 100 index gained 2.5 percent , the CAC-40 in Paris rose 1.7 percent , while the DAX in Frankfurt jumped 2.8 percent .
In Asia , Tokyo 's Nikkei index advanced 2.7 percent ( 224 points ) to end at 8,462 .
In Hong Kong , the Hang Seng moved up 2.4 percent ( 321 points ) to finish at 13,543 .
The price of gold rose more than $ 9 to trade at $ 745.71 an ounce .
The dollar was down against the yen but gained compared to the euro .
Cuba has decided to ban smoking in many public places beginning next month .
Officials say the smoking ban , which will start the first week of February , will apply to buses , theaters , sports arenas and indoor restaurants , except designated areas .
Cigarette machines will also be removed .
The French news agency , AFP , reports that under the new rules tobacco products will be sold only to people over 16 years of age .
There is currently no age minimum .
The news agency reports the government has taken the measures for health reasons and to respect the rights of non-smokers .
Pakistani officials say a U.S. missile strike in Pakistan 's tribal region Saturday killed two suspected militants .
Security officials said the strike targeted a house in the town of Mir Ali in North Waziristan .
The region is considered a base for Taliban and al-Qaida insurgents accused of attacking NATO troops across the border in Afghanistan .
U.S. President Barack Obama has increased the use of drone strikes to target hideouts in Pakistan , causing friction between Washington and Islamabad .
Pakistan 's government has objected to the attacks , saying they violate its sovereignty .
Malawi 's Agriculture Minister Uladi Mussa says Africa is not prepared to fight bird flu .
Mussa told a 19-nation bird flu conference in Malawi Monday that the lack of knowledge among health officials is as dangerous as the lack of resources .
United Nations Food and Agriculture official Mazlan Jusoh said most African nations are free of bird flu for now , but says they must boost surveillance .
He said poverty and inadequate medical and veterinary services make Africa vulnerable .
The deadly H5N1 bird flu strain has been found in birds in five African nations ( Burkina Faso , Cameroon , Egypt , Niger , and Nigeria ) .
Meanwhile , Pakistan said Monday it killed more than 40,000 chickens after bird flu was found on several poultry farms near Islamabad .
Bird flu has killed 113 people worldwide since 2003 - mostly in Asia .
In a city where most police do not carry guns , the shooting death of a suspect on a crowded London subway has resonated much further than the underground station where the incident occurred .
Across the British capital Saturday , residents learned more about the suspect police officers chased onto a subway car Friday and shot to death five times at point-blank range .
In a statement , London police said the man was not connected to Thursday 's attempted bombings on the British capital 's transit system , and called the killing ' regrettable ' and a ' tragedy . '
Experts say the shooting death raises questions about police firearm practices and deepens the anxiety of a city that increasingly feels under siege .
Slovenia 's Katarina Srebotnik has overcome a leg injury to win both the singles and doubles titles at the ASB Classic women 's tennis tournament in Auckland , New Zealand .
Srebotnik received treatment for a thigh injury to beat fourth-seeded Japanese player Shinboue Asagoe in the final in three sets , 05-Jul , 07-May , 06-Apr .
Earlier , the Slovene player took two and a half hours to beat fifth seed Marion Bartoli of France in the semifinals , 07-May , 02-Jun , 07-May .
Srebotnik later teamed with Asagoe to take the tournament doubles title over Leanne Baker of New Zealand and Francesca Lubiani of Italy , 06-Mar , 06-Mar .
The win was Srebotnik 's seventh doubles title on the WTA tour .
The singles title was Srebotnik 's third in five years .
The 23-year-old Slovene came into the tournament ranked 87th in the world .
Israel 's Security Cabinet has decided to continue military strikes against Palestinian militants firing rockets from Gaza into Israel .
The cabinet said it based the decision on the relative decrease in rocket attacks since Israeli airstrikes started almost two weeks ago .
Israel has also conducted a limited number of ground raids against the militants .
A statement from the office of Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert added that Israel is not involved in any cease-fire talks with the militants .
Earlier Wednesday , an Israeli airstrike killed two Hamas militants in a northern Gaza refugee camp .
About 50 Palestinians , mostly militants , have been killed in the Israeli attacks .
Palestinian rockets have killed two Israelis since mid-May .
A new museum opened Friday in Washington on crime and law enforcement , mostly in the United States .
The museum is owned and financed by an entrepreneur and it charges a fee for entry .
Visitors are invited to pick up a rifle in a Wild West shootout , plan a prison break and test their knowledge of infamous murderers .
VOA 's Deborah Block was there .
Iraqi soldiers , prisoners and hospital patients have cast early ballots for parliamentary elections set to open to the general public on Thursday .
Officials have promised to implement tough security measures Thursday to guard against violence during the vote .
They include closing Iraq 's borders and restricting travel .
Authorities are also expected to extend curfews across the country Tuesday .
Polling stations were due to open today in 15 countries , including the United States , for voters living outside Iraq .
Meanwhile , officials in Iraq reported seven people were killed in attacks Monday .
Separate roadside bomb attacks killed one American soldier and two other people in the Iraqi capital .
And gunmen killed four Iraqis , including a police officer .
Australia 's Qantas Airways resumed limited superjumbo flights Saturday , with the take-off of a fully-loaded Airbus A380 from Singapore .
Qantas chief executive Alan Joyce joined the first leg of the flight to London via Singapore .
Joyce told reporters that he was 100 percent comfortable with the operation of the aircraft .
The airline grounded its six A380s after a superjumbo 's engine blew up midair on November 4 , forcing an emergency landing in Singapore .
Inspections showed problems with several of Qantas Airways ' Rolls Royce Trent 900 engines that required turbines to be replaced or modified .
Qantas is putting just two of its A380s back in service while modifications are made on engines on other aircraft .
Islamic militants have fired volleys of Katyusha-type rockets in response to a Lebanese army bombardment of their positions inside a Palestinian refugee camp in northern Lebanon .
The army says the rockets caused some damage but no casualties several kilometers away from the refugee camp .
Lebanese artillery and tanks continued to pound Fatah al-Islam militants inside the Nahr el-Bared refugee camp near the city of Tripoli .
At least 10 soldiers have died in fighting since Thursday when the army began an artillery barrage on the camp .
Last month , Lebanese officials claimed victory in the fighting , but daily firefights have continued since then .
More than 170 people , including more than 90 Lebanese soldiers , have been killed since the standoff began May 20 .
Nearly all of the Palestinian refugees living in the camp have fled .
A car bomb explosion in Iraq has killed five people , including four police officers who were on patrol .
Officials say a civilian was also among the dead in the town of Khan Bani Saad , near Baquba , just north of Baghdad .
At least three other people were injured .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military reported Saturday , that a Marine was killed in action Friday , in the western city of Ramadi .
In political news , the Iraqi National Assembly is scheduled to meet Sunday to finally elect a speaker .
But politicians say Shi'ite and Sunni leaders are still not able to agree on a Sunni candidate for the post .
The impasse has delayed formation of the new government .
Palestinian militants fired two rockets into southern Israel late Tuesday , following Israeli airstrikes near the Gaza Strip 's border with Egypt .
Israeli military officials say no one was hurt in the rocket attack .
Earlier on Tuesday , Israeli aircraft bombed at least six smuggling tunnels near the southern Gaza town of Rafah .
Israeli military officials say one of the airstrikes triggered a secondary explosion , indicating that explosives were present in the tunnel .
At least four people were reported wounded in the strikes .
Israel launched a three-week offensive against the Palestinian militant group Hamas in Gaza in response to the rocket attacks .
Both Hamas and Israel declared separate cease-fires last month , but the violence continues almost daily .
The U.S. military has announced charges against eight service members in connection with the death of an Iraqi civilian .
Marine Colonel Stewart Navarre said Wednesday the eight face charges including kidnapping , murder and conspiracy .
The seven Marines and a Navy corpsman are suspected of killing an Iraqi man without provocation in the village of Hamdania in April .
They have been held since May at Camp Pendleton , California .
Four other Marines not being held remain under investigation .
The investigation is separate from the probe of the events of Haditha in November 2005 , in which Marines are alleged to have killed 24 Iraqi civilians after a roadside bomb blast in the town killed a fellow Marine .
At least 60 people are confirmed dead and more than 400 remain missing after the Shadi Kor dam ruptured in southwestern Pakistan Thursday .
More than 1,500 people have been rescued from the floodwaters after the two-year-old dam failed .
Primarily used for irrigation , the 25-meter-high , 150-meter-long dam was destroyed by a wall of water after a week of heavy rain and snow that has caused over 120 storm-related deaths in the region .
Members of Pakistan 's army , navy and coast guard are leading relief efforts at the disaster site in Baluchistan Province .
An estimated 50,000 people in the province have been affected with the loss of roads , bridges , houses , crops and telecommunications , much of which remains under water .
Several more days of severe , wet weather are expected .
German officials say the German woman who was taken hostage in Iraq last month has been freed and appears to be in good health .
Germany 's foreign minister ( Frank-Walter Steinmeier ) says archaeologist Susanne Osthoff is now in the German embassy in Baghdad .
He gave no information on her release , saying only that she is no longer in the hands of the kidnappers .
Ms. Osthoff and her driver disappeared on November 25 in the Nineveh region of northwest Iraq .
She had been working in Iraq more than ten years .
Pope John Paul has called for better integration among peoples as the Roman Catholic Church marks the World Day of Migrants and Refugees .
In remarks at the Vatican Sunday , the pontiff said better integration among peoples requires a fair balance between the affirmation of one 's own identity and recognition of that of others .
The 84-year-old pope greeted all migrants and said he wishes that sympathy and understanding among cultures can grow through dialogue .
The United States will host a two-day international conference on the avian ( bird ) flu virus in Washington beginning Thursday .
U.S. State Department spokesman Sean McCormack Wednesday said more than 65 countries and international organizations concerned about preventing a global bird flu pandemic will be participating .
He said U.S. officials leading the meeting will focus on a set of core principles regarding the H5N1 virus unveiled by Washington at last month 's U.N. World Summit .
He said the program principles include quick and accurate reporting of outbreaks of the virus , donor support for countries affected by the disease and a pledge to work with the World Health Organization .
Many participants have already signed on to the U.S.-led program .
About 60 people have died after being exposed to birds with the virus .
Experts warn the virus could mutate into a form passed easily among humans and cause a global pandemic .
Burma has reported an outbreak of bird flu among chickens in the country 's eastern Shan state .
The official " New Light of Myanmar " newspaper said Saturday that authorities confirmed the outbreak of the deadly H5N1 virus on Thursday , after an unspecified number of chickens had died in Yankham village .
Officials said they determined that the virus was spread to the area from Kengtung Township , where bird flu broke out in December 18 .
Burma and the World Health Organization had earlier confirmed the country 's first human bird flu case , when a seven-year-old girl was hospitalized in late November .
The girl survived the disease and was discharged in early December .
Seven countries in East Asia have reported human cases of the potentially deadly virus .
The two with the greatest number of cases are Indonesia and Vietnam .
More than 200 people in 13 countries have died from the disease since 2003 .
U.S. Navy helicopters will begin airlifting survivors from remote areas of Indonesia 's tsunami-devastated Aceh province , a move the United Nations calls vital to rescue operations in the region .
U.S. , Australian and Indonesian military helicopters are also dropping food and supplies to hungry people left stranded in isolated western areas of the province .
Large areas of Aceh province remain inaccessible to emergency crews on the ground one week after the area was battered by massive waves triggered by a 9 magnitude earthquake near its coast .
The tsunami pounded coastlines in a dozen Indian Ocean countries , leaving 1,27,000 people known dead .
Millions more people are now homeless and in need of emergency assistance .
Aid is being rushed to the region , but logistical bottlenecks , destroyed infrastructure , and bad weather are hindering distribution .
Relief agencies warn it may take weeks to get aid to some needy people .
The US military says one US soldier and an Afghan interpreter have been killed in a gunfight in southern Afghanistan , as the war-ravaged country continues its bloody countdown to parliamentary polls .
A military statement says they were moving into position for a daylight offensive operation south of Dai Chopan in Zabul province when the gun battle occurred .
U.S. and Afghan government forces have mounted a series of operations in the south and east in recent months , aimed at flushing out militants and ensuring security for September 18th parliamentary elections .
The U.S. military said two Taleban were later killed in the attack including one identified as a sub-commander .
A purported spokesman for the Taleban confirmed the local-level commander , known as Tor Mullah Abdul Manan , had been killed in a battle in the restive Zabul province .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has again defended his country 's right to develop nuclear energy .
At a news conference during a visit to Algeria , Ahmadinejad Tuesday denounced nations for trying to isolate his country over its nuclear program .
The United States and its allies accuse Iran of trying to develop nuclear weapons .
Iran denies the charge , saying its program is aimed at producing energy .
On Monday , U.S. President George W. Bush said the Ahmadinejad government is " a big disappointment " and is causing the Iranian people to be further isolated .
Iran has rejected U.N. Security Council resolutions requiring it to stop enriching uranium .
However , Iran recently agreed to allow U.N. atomic energy agency inspectors to view a sensitive nuclear facility to help resolve questions about its nuclear plans .
A U.N team arrived in Iran this week to develop a plan for future inspections .
India and South America 's Mercosur trading bloc have signed an agreement slashing tariffs on more than 900 products in a trade boosting measure .
Under the agreement signed Saturday , India is cutting or eliminating tariffs on 450 products while the South American trading bloc is taking similar action on 452 products .
Trade between India and Mercosur reached $ 1.5 billion last year .
Mercosur comprises Argentina , Brazil , Paraguay and Uruguay .
Chile and Bolivia are associate members of the bloc .
India 's main exports to Mercosur nations included pharmaceutical and chemical products .
Imports included edible oils and non-electrical machinery .
A Chechen militant website says Shamil Basayev , who is wanted in Russia for leading numerous terrorist attacks , has been named second-in-command of the separatist Chechen government A statement on the kavkazcenter.com web site says Mr. Basayev was named first deputy prime minister and put in charge of the armed forces .
The statement was attributed to Abdul-Khalim Sadulayev , who succeeded Aslan Maskhadov as president of Chechnya 's breakaway government when the Chechen leader was killed in March .
Mr. Basayev left Chechnya 's administration in 2002 under pressure from Mr. Maskhadov for being too violent .
Mr. Basayev claims responsibility for last year 's school seizure in Beslan , a town in southern Russia , in which more than 330 people were killed .
Chechnya has been rocked by about a decade of fighting between separatist forces and Russian federal government troops .
Private donations to help victims of the Asian tsunami are soaring in Europe , rivaling and in some cases exceeding government contributions .
In Sweden , a series of telethons Saturday pushed private donations above the $ 60-million mark .
Relief agencies called it a record for the nation , which may have lost more citizens in the disaster than any other in Europe .
The British public had contributed about $ 115 million by Saturday - nearly $ 20 million more than its government .
Private donations in Germany were running above $ 40 million - more than the German government has pledged so far .
An aid official told the French news agency , AFP , it was one of the largest donations of its type in Germany .
The International Atomic Energy Agency was set up by the United Nations in 1957 as the so-called " Atoms for Peace " program , to promote the safe and peaceful use of nuclear energy .
Since 1970 , its tasks have included verifying compliance with the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty .
With headquarters in Vienna , Austria , the agency employs a staff of more than 2,200 people from 90 countries .
The IAEA 's main decisions are made by two policy-making bodies - the General Conference of all 138 member states ; and an elected board of governors , whose 35 members serve a one-year term .
The agency not only deals with current issues such as Iran 's and North Korea 's nuclear programs , but it also helps countries with their nuclear safety arrangements and offers assistance to countries wishing to upgrade civilian nuclear safety .
Weather forecasters are advising residents in the southeastern United States to monitor a tropical storm off Florida 's east coast .
The National Weather Center says Tropical Storm Ophelia could dump eight centimeters of rain in parts of Florida and southeastern Georgia , with isolated maximum amounts up to 13 centimeters .
The storm , packing winds of near 95 kilometers per hour , is about 100 kilometers from Cape Canaveral , Florida .
The weather center says the system is stationary and not expected to move much Thursday .
Some strengthening is forecast .
A tropical storm warning is in effect for parts of Florida 's east coast .
Authorities in Greece have sent riot police to a top tourist attraction after striking government workers shut down the Acropolis for a second day .
Police were stationed outside the entrance to the site Thursday , where workers have blockaded the gate .
The culture ministry employees are protesting the dismissal of workers whose contracts expire at the end of the month .
They are also demanding the government provide months of unpaid salaries .
Dozens of tourists were also outside the site Thursday .
The Acropolis is a UNESCO World Heritage site that holds the ruins of several ancient Greek temples , including the famed Parthenon .
Sudan has approved the deployment of 105 armored personnel carriers to aid African Union peacekeeping forces in the war-torn western region of Darfur .
The Sudanese decision follows recent rebel attacks on AU peacekeepers in Darfur .
In one of the attacks , five AU soldiers and civilian personnel were killed when rebels with the Sudan Liberation Movement ambushed a convoy .
Separately , a faction of the rebel Justice and Equality Movement abducted and held hostage 38 AU personnel .
They were later released .
The Canadian-donated armored personnel vehicles are expected to begin arriving on Friday .
Ongoing violence in Darfur has forced aid agencies to evacuate relief workers .
Some 7,000 AU peacekeepers are in Darfur , where fighting between rebels and government-backed Arab militia has killed tens of thousands of people over the past two years .
More than two million others have been driven from their homes .
Burma 's largest opposition party is marking the 15th anniversary of its landslide election victory , which the military government never recognized .
National League for Democracy party officials invited diplomats and journalists to Friday 's commemoration in Rangoon .
However , NLD leader Aung San Suu Kyi is not able to attend the ceremony .
The Nobel Laureate has been under house arrest for two years following a violent ambush by a pro-junta mob .
Her party won 392 of 485 seats in the 1990 election .
But the military junta refused to recognize the balloting , which was widely seen as free and fair .
The government instead clamped down on opposition parties and began jailing opposition leaders .
On Wednesday , the human rights group Amnesty International slammed Burma 's human rights record , saying more than 1,300 political prisoners were wrongly detained last year .
A U.S. congressman in the Democratic Party says the recently unveiled shortfalls in care at a Washington , D.C. military hospital indicate a " catastrophic failure of leadership " by the Bush administration .
Congressman Harry Mitchell of the southwestern state of Arizona said in the Democrats ' weekly radio address Saturday , that problems similar to those found at Walter Reed military hospital are being uncovered elsewhere in the military medical care system .
He said it is a problem that can not be fixed simply with drywall and paint .
Mitchell said voters should hold the Bush administration accountable for those shortfalls because it did not provide adequate funding .
He said Democrats have added $ 3.5 billion for veterans ' care to the president 's budget request for war funding .
Congress has not voted yet to approve this year 's budget .
Former Israeli President Moshe Katsav has been indicted on charges of rape and other sexual offenses .
The indictment filed Thursday in a Tel Aviv court accused Mr. Katsav of raping a woman who once worked for him , in addition to sexual harassment charges involving two other former female employees .
The indictment said the women worked for Mr. Katsav while he was Israel 's Tourism Minister in the 1990s , and president earlier this decade .
Mr. Katsav resigned shortly before his term ended in 2007 at the end of his presidential term , under a plea bargain that would have required him to admit to lesser charges of sexual misconduct .
He withdrew from the agreement last April and so he could stand trial in hopes of clearing his name .
He has vigorously denied the charges facing him .
The NATO-led international force in Afghanistan is preparing to build a helipad near the site of last week 's crash of an Afghan airliner that killed all 104 people onboard .
A spokesman says the aim is to speed up the investigation and the recovery of bodies from the crash site , which is at an altitude of nearly 3,000 meters on a mountain near Kabul .
Bad weather so far has hampered efforts to search for the black box and retrieve bodies from the wreckage .
The Boeing 737 , operated by private Afghan airline Kam Air , vanished from the radar screen last Thursday as it was approaching Kabul airport during a blizzard .
The French News Agency , AFP , says the United Nations has grounded another Boeing 737 hired from Kam Air .
NATO says British Foreign Secretary David Miliband visited southern Afghanistan on Tuesday , where British forces are fighting Taliban militants .
A NATO statement issued Wednesday said Miliband met with commanders who oversee military operations in the southern province of Helmand , including the head of NATO forces in southern Afghanistan , Dutch commander Major General Mart de Kruif .
NATO says the men discussed British , U.S. and NATO roles in reconstruction , security and counter-narcotics operations , as well as the upcoming elections in Afghanistan .
The statement says Miliband also met with senior Afghan government officials during his fourth visit to to the country , but no further details were provided .
In other news , Pakistan 's Foreign Ministry says Afghan President Hamid Karzai is set to visit Islamabad for talks on Thursday .
Travel for this year 's Thanksgiving holiday in the United States is expected to reach levels not seen since the September 11 terrorist attacks three years ago .
A leading U.S. travel association , the American Automobile Association , predicts that some 37 million Americans will venture at least 80 kilometers from home .
It says about 4.6 million travelers will go by plane and endure the long security procedures put in place after the terror attacks carried out by 19 al-Qaida skyjackers .
Another 30 million Americans are expected to travel by car , leading to long traffic jams around major cities .
In Lebanon , hundreds of thousands of Shi'ite Muslims marched through southern Beirut Thursday to commemorate the death of a revered leader and to protest cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad .
The march is an annual event to mark Ashura , when Shi'ites mourn the death of the prophet 's grandson , Imam Hussain , more than 1,300 years ago .
Shi'ite mourners dressed in black chanted slogans of allegiance to the Prophet Muhammad , and carried placards denouncing cartoon depictions of him .
There were no reports of violence .
Less than a week ago , a Beirut protest against publication of the cartoons in Denmark and other European countries turned into a rampage that left the Danish embassy in flames and dozens injured .
President Bush and Jordan 's King Abdullah have called on foreign governments to end the deadly rioting that has spread across the Muslim world after the cartoons .
India has released 24 Pakistani prisoners detained for border violations .
The men , who spent between six months and 15 years in Indian jails for straying into Indian territory , were handed over to Pakistani authorities at the Wagah border crossing Thursday .
The handover comes ahead of Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf 's visit to New Delhi to watch the final cricket match between Indian and Pakistani cricket teams .
The visit is part of efforts to improve relations between the two nuclear neighbors and establish a lasting peace in the region .
India and Pakistan often arrest villagers and fishermen for illegally entering each other 's territory and territorial waters .
During peace talks , which started last year , the two countries agreed to expedite the release of such prisoners .
The U.S. trade deficit surged to an all-time record high of nearly $ 726 billion in 2005 .
That is a nearly 18 percent increase over the previous year and the fourth consecutive year the gap has hit a record .
Friday 's report from the Commerce Department also says the trade deficit with China was the largest with any U.S. trading partner , rising sharply to a record yearly total of nearly $ 202 billion .
The politically sensitive China trade issue has prompted some members of the U.S. Congress to accuse Beijing of keeping the value of its currency artificially low , giving its exports a price advantage on world markets .
Mexican authorities say huge mudslides , flooding and torrential rains from Hurricane Stan 's recent onslaught have killed at least 130 people in Central America and Mexico .
Stan came ashore along Mexico 's Gulf Coast on Tuesday , knocking down trees and ripping the roofs off houses with winds of 130 kilometers per hour .
Rivers also burst their banks in southern Mexico , washing away bridges and ripping apart houses and buildings .
Additionally , Stan has been blamed for at least 50 deaths in both El Salvador and Guatemala , where mudslides buried houses .
Forecasters say the storm is now a tropical depression and dissipating over the mountains of southeastern Mexico , but they warn it is still capable of producing additional heavy rains and flooding .
Police say Ms. Chang , who wrote about the Japanese occupation of China and the history of Chinese immigrants in the United States , was found dead in her car along a road south of San Francisco .
The official cause of death has not been officially determined , but investigators believe the 36-year-old writer died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound .
Ms. Chang 's best-known work was the 1997 bestseller " The Rape of Nanking , " which described the rape , torture and killings of Chinese civilians at the hands of Japanese troops in the 1930s .
Ms. Chang also wrote " The Chinese in America , " which looked at the history of Chinese immigrants and their descendants in the United States .
India 's Health Ministry has cast doubt on a study by an environmental group that showed that soft drinks produced locally by two U.S. giants PepsiCo and Coca-Cola contained high levels of pesticides .
A committee appointed by the ministry said the residue data reported by the New Delhi-based Center for Science and Environment , or CSE , failed to prove its claims .
It also said the group 's sampling methods lacked a scientific and statistically valid basis .
The CSE has slammed the committee 's findings , saying it should not rely on data provided by the two companies .
The study by the CSE sparked an uproar and triggered a ban in six Indian states on the sale of beverages locally produced by the two companies .
PepsiCo and Coca-Cola say their soft drinks manufactured in India comply with stringent international and national standards .
U.S. Senator Edward Kennedy will be buried in Arlington National Cemetery , the final resting place of his slain brothers - President John F. Kennedy and Senator Robert Kennedy .
More than 3,00,000 people , including veterans from all the nation 's wars , two former presidents , prominent explorers and other historical figures , are buried at the cemetery , located just a short distance from Washington D.C.
At the site of President Kennedy 's grave is the eternal flame where three other Kennedys are buried : the president 's wife Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis , their infant son and a stillborn daughter .
Robert Kennedy is buried nearby .
Prior to be being laid to rest , Edward Kennedy will lie in repose at the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum in Boston .
A funeral will take place at Boston 's Our Lady of Perpetual Help Basilica .
Australia says it will investigate a botched military operation in Afghanistan in 2002 that killed 11 civilians .
The Australian / New Zealand edition of Time magazine says the incident was sparked when Australian soldiers on a U.S.-led patrol shot and killed two villagers they mistakenly believed were Afghan militants .
Other tribesmen began shooting , and a rival tribe which thought it was being attacked also opened fire .
The patrol called for support , and U.S. warplanes were sent to bomb the area .
Sixteen other civilians were also wounded in the fighting .
The magazine says one of the Australian soldiers removed a turban and a gun from one of the civilians killed in the firefight .
Police in Lebanon and Germany have detained two more suspects in connection with last month 's failed terrorist plot to blow up two German passenger trains .
Lebanese officials Friday detained a man identified only by the initials HKD .
They said they based their action on information provided by Jihad Hamad , a suspect who earlier turned himself in to Lebanese authorities .
Also Friday , German officials captured a suspect in the southern city of Konstanz .
Authorities say the unidentified man has links to Youssef Mohamad el Hajdib , who was detained last Saturday in the northern German city of Kiel .
Authorities say video surveillance cameras caught two of the suspects arrested in Germany boarding trains in Cologne on July 31 and carrying suitcases packed with homemade bombs .
The bombs were placed on trains bound for the cities of Dortmund and Koblenz , but failed to explode .
Israeli troops have killed two Palestinian gunmen who attacked a border crossing between the Gaza Strip and Israel .
Israeli army officials say the gunmen infiltrated into Israel early Thursday through the Erez border crossing and threw hand grenades at the checkpoint before being killed .
The Popular Resistance Committees and Al-Aqsa Martyrs ' Brigades claimed joint responsibility for the attack .
The Erez checkpoint is the main crossing for thousands of Palestinian workers with jobs in Israel .
Israel routinely closes the crossing after violent incidents .
Separately , the Palestinian militant group Hamas has warned Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas not to make changes to the government without its approval .
In Cairo , Hamas political leader Khaled Mashaal also vowed that the militant group , which swept parliamentary elections last month , will not renounce violence against Israel .
Police in Pakistan say gunmen opened fire on the car carrying the nation 's religious affairs minister , wounding him and killing his driver .
Authorities say minister Hamid Saeed Kazmi 's vehicle was attacked near his office in the capital , Islamabad , Wednesday .
Further details were not immediately confirmed .
Vote counting in Iraq 's constitutional referendum continued Sunday , with spot checks of preliminary results suggesting the U.S.-backed charter may have passed .
The Associated Press says an early vote count in crucial Diyala province showed 70 percent of voters saying " yes " to the constitution .
And with most ballots counted in Ninevah province , AP reports " yes " votes were outnumbering " no " nearly four to one .
Diyala and Ninevah are two of four key provinces where Sunni Arab opponents were relying on residents to defeat the constitution .
The charter will pass with a simple majority , but will fail if two-thirds of voters in any three provinces reject it .
More results are expected later today and Monday .
The U.S. military says that five American soldiers were killed by a roadside bomb in the mostly Sunni city of Ramadi during voting on Saturday , but otherwise said the day was relatively peaceful .
The U.S. government reported a one percent increase in retail sales for January .
Economists watch retail sales closely because consumer demand drives about two-thirds of U.S. economic activity .
According to the Commerce Department , this is the first sales increase in seven months .
But the economy remains troubled , as a separate Labor Department report showed the number of Americans continuing to collect unemployment rose for the fourth week in a row .
The total is now just over 4.8 million , which is a record-high .
The number of people signing up for unemployment benefits declined slightly - by 8000 to a total of 6,23,000 - last week .
That level is close to a 26-year high .
Iraqi police say five people have been killed in a bomb blast near a funeral tent in the capital .
Authorities say another 28 people were wounded in Wednesday 's blast in Baghdad 's mostly Shi'ite slum of Sadr City .
Elsewhere in the country Wednesday , Iraqi officials say a car bomb blast killed six people , including two traffic police officers , in western Anbar province .
Authorities say a police checkpoint in the provincial capital , Ramadi , was the target of the attack .
Sixteen people were wounded in the explosion .
Iraq has seen multiple deadly attacks in the two weeks since U.S. combat troops withdrew from Iraqi cities .
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has approved a new treatment for late-stage cervical cancer .
The treatment is a combination of the drugs Hycamtin and Cisplatin , and is approved for women with incurable , recurrent or persistent cancer of the cervix that has spread to other organs .
The combination is the first time a treatment has been recommended for late-stage cervical cancer .
The FDA originally approved Hycamtin in 1996 for treating ovarian cancer and in 1998 for small-cell lung cancer .
FDA officials say the drug therapy is not a cure , but a potentially life-prolonging option for thousands of women .
Earlier this month , the FDA approved the first vaccine to protect women and girls from contracting the disease .
Each year , about 10,000 new cases of cervical cancer are diagnosed in American women and there are 3,700 related deaths .
Some 3,00,000 women die of the disease each year worldwide .
A court in London has remanded into custody a man charged with attempting to bomb the London transport system in July .
Ethiopian-born Hamdi Issac , also known as Osman Hussain , made his first court appearance Friday , a day after being extradited to Britain from Italy .
His next court date is December 8 .
Hamdi Issac was arrested immediately after his arrival in Britain Thursday .
He is facing charges including attempted murder and illegal possession of explosives .
Italian police arrested the British citizen in Rome a week after the failed July 21 attacks in London .
Those attacks caused no fatalities but brought chaos to London two weeks after suicide bombers killed 52 people in the British capital .
Hamdi Issac has admitted taking part in the second set of attacks but has said the action was meant to scare people , not kill them .
Croatian Prime Minister Ivo Sanader says his government will take every measure to bring to justice those responsible for the Monday night attack on a leading investigative journalist .
The Croatian news agency Hina says Mr. Sanader made his comments as he met in Zagreb with leaders of Croatia 's Journalists Association after the attack on Dusan Miljus , a reporter for the Jutarnji List daily .
Miljus is known for his reports on organized crime activities
The journalist suffered a concussion and broken arm when masked attackers assaulted him with baseball bats in front of his Zagreb home .
The incident followed a series of death threats against Miljus .
Organized crime groups in Croatia have repeatedly targeted journalists who had probed their activities .
Insurgents in Iraq carried out a series of attacks Sunday , killing two American soldiers and at least five Iraqis .
U.S. officials said the two Americans were killed by bombs in the Iraqi capital .
South of Baghdad , a mortar attack killed two Iraqis , and gunmen killed a policeman in Mosul .
Two civilians died in separate incidents in the northern city of Kirkuk .
Meanwhile , demonstrations were held in several Iraqi cities by Sunni Arabs , who have complained of fraud in the recent parliamentary vote .
Shi'ite Arabs in Baghdad also marched Sunday to show support for Shi'ite candidates .
Initial results showed a key Shi'ite coalition was leading the vote .
In northern Iraq , Iraq 's President Jalal Talabani said Iraq 's new government should include all of Iraq 's religious and ethnic groups .
A United Nations official has said Liberia is meeting benchmarks that would end Security Council sanctions on Liberian diamonds and timber .
U.N. Sanctions chief Ellen Loj told reporters Saturday in Monrovia that Liberia has more work to do , but is working diligently to meet the conditions set for the lifting of the trade sanctions .
A ban on Liberian diamonds was imposed in 2001 by the U.N. Security Council after a British investigation found former Liberian President Charles Taylor was trading the diamonds for weapons for rebels in neighboring Sierra Leone .
The timber sanctions were imposed in 2003 when the Security Council said Taylor was using timber proceeds to fund war at home and in Sierra Leone .
Ellen Loj said the Security Council will meet in June to review the sanctions .
A series of explosions shook the Iraqi capital Wednesday , while a high-ranking U.S. official visited the country .
Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick visited the former insurgent stronghold of Fallujah .
He was scheduled to also meet in Baghdad with Iraq 's new interim president and prime minister .
Meanwhile , near Kirkuk , nine policemen were killed while trying to defuse a bomb .
In Baghdad , a string of explosions killed five Iraqis and injured eight other people , including four U.S. contractors .
Also , the U.S. military announced today that an American soldier was killed Tuesday in Ramadi during combat operations .
And al-Jazeera television has aired a video it says shows an American contractor who was abducted Monday near Baghdad .
The video showed the man urging U.S. officials to open a dialogue with insurgents in order to save his life .
The White House says it is in contact with the hostage 's family .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez says a U.S. Navy attache accused of spying has been ordered out of the country .
Mr. Chavez said Thursday that naval Captain John Correa must leave Venezuela immediately .
Correa has been named in connection with accusations that several Venezuelan military officers had passed information to the U.S. military through the U.S. embassy in Caracas .
Mr. Chavez on Monday accused U.S. officers at the embassy of spying .
Vice President Jose Vicente Rangel said last week that several low-level Venezuelan officers had been caught passing information to the U.S. military .
U.S. State Department spokesman , Adam Ereli would not comment specifically on the charges of espionage .
But in remarks earlier this week , the official said the United States has had good relations with the Venezuelan military in the past and hopes that can continue .
The cuts announced Thursday would reduce the bankrupt airline 's workforce by 17 percent and help Delta save $ 3 billion .
Delta is also cutting wages , starting with a 25 percent reduction for company chief executive Gerald Grinstein .
Lower ranking employees face smaller cuts .
Delta is also cutting scores of aircraft from its fleet , and shifting some other flights from highly-competitive domestic routes to more-profitable overseas destinations .
The job cuts come atop 24,000 layoffs that have slashed Delta 's workforce since the 2001 terror attacks that hurt business for major airlines .
They have been battling strong competition from budget-price carriers and soaring fuel prices ever since .
Elections officials in Afghanistan have disqualified dozens of candidates from the country 's upcoming parliamentary elections because of alleged links to militias .
A commissioner of the U.N.-backed Electoral Complaints Commission , Ahmad Zia Rafat , said Wednesday that 36 names were removed from the list of final candidates .
The ECC said the candidates were given a chance to fight their disqualification , but they failed to prove their eligibility to run in the September election .
Afghanistan 's election laws prohibit any members of illegal armed groups from seeking office .
Afghan election officials have said they are determined to hold a fair parliamentary election , after fraud allegations marred last year 's presidential vote .
The ECC found there were massive irregularities in those ballots , and threw out a third of the votes cast for President Hamid Karzai .
The economy of Saint Kitts and Nevis is heavily dependent upon tourism revenues , which has replaced sugar , the traditional mainstay of the economy until the 1970s .
Following the 2005 harvest , the government closed the sugar industry after decades of losses of 03-Apr % of GDP annually .
To compensate for employment losses , the government has embarked on a program to diversify the agricultural sector and to stimulate other sectors of the economy , such as tourism , export-oriented manufacturing , and offshore banking .
More than 2,00,000 tourists visited the islands in 2009 .
Like other tourist destinations in the Caribbean , St. Kitts and Nevis is vulnerable to damage from natural disasters and shifts in tourism demand .
The current government is constrained by one of the world 's highest public debt burdens equivalent to roughly 185 % of GDP , largely attributable to public enterprise losses .
US Government assistance is the mainstay of this tiny island economy .
The Marshall Islands received more than $ 1 billion in aid from the US from 1986 - 2002 .
Agricultural production , primarily subsistence , is concentrated on small farms ; the most important commercial crops are coconuts and breadfruit .
Small-scale industry is limited to handicrafts , tuna processing , and copra .
The tourist industry , now a small source of foreign exchange employing less than 10 % of the labor force , remains the best hope for future added income .
The islands have few natural resources , and imports far exceed exports .
Under the terms of the Amended Compact of Free Association , the US will provide millions of dollars per year to the Marshall Islands ( RMI ) through 2023 , at which time a Trust Fund made up of US and RMI contributions will begin perpetual annual payouts .
Government downsizing , drought , a drop in construction , the decline in tourism , and less income from the renewal of fishing vessel licenses have held GDP growth to an average of 1 % over the past decade .
Azerbaijan 's high economic growth during 2006 - 8 was attributable to large and growing oil exports , but some non-export sectors also featured double-digit growth , spurred by growth in the construction , banking , and real estate sectors .
In 2009 , economic growth remained above 9 % even as oil prices moderated and growth in the construction sector cooled .
In 2010 , economic growth slowed to 3.7 % , although the impact of the global financial crisis was less severe than in many other countries in the region .
The current global economic slowdown presents some challenges for the Azerbaijani economy as oil prices remain below their mid-2008 highs , highlighting Azerbaijan 's reliance on energy exports and lackluster attempts to diversify its economy .
Azerbaijan 's oil production increased dramatically in 1997 , when Azerbaijan signed the first production-sharing arrangement ( PSA ) with the Azerbaijan International Operating Company .
Oil exports through the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan Pipeline remain the main economic driver while efforts to boost Azerbaijan 's gas production are underway .
However , Azerbaijan has made only limited progress on instituting market-based economic reforms .
Pervasive public and private sector corruption and structural economic inefficiencies remain a drag on long-term growth , particularly in non-energy sectors .
Several other obstacles impede Azerbaijan 's economic progress : the need for stepped up foreign investment in the non-energy sector and the continuing conflict with Armenia over the Nagorno-Karabakh region .
Trade with Russia and the other former Soviet republics is declining in importance , while trade is building with Turkey and the nations of Europe .
Long-term prospects will depend on world oil prices , the location of new oil and gas pipelines in the region , and Azerbaijan 's ability to manage its energy wealth to promote sustainable growth in non-energy sectors of the economy and spur employment .
The Taino - indigenous inhabitants of Hispaniola prior to the arrival of the Europeans - divided the island into five chiefdoms and territories .
Christopher COLUMBUS explored and claimed the island on his first voyage in 1492 ; it became a springboard for Spanish conquest of the Caribbean and the American mainland .
In 1697 , Spain recognized French dominion over the western third of the island , which in 1804 became Haiti .
The remainder of the island , by then known as Santo Domingo , sought to gain its own independence in 1821 but was conquered and ruled by the Haitians for 22 years ; it finally attained independence as the Dominican Republic in 1844 .
In 1861 , the Dominicans voluntarily returned to the Spanish Empire , but two years later they launched a war that restored independence in 1865 .
A legacy of unsettled , mostly non-representative rule followed , capped by the dictatorship of Rafael Leonidas TRUJILLO from 1930 - 61 .
Juan BOSCH was elected president in 1962 but was deposed in a military coup in 1963 .
In 1965 , the United States led an intervention in the midst of a civil war sparked by an uprising to restore BOSCH .
In 1966 , Joaquin BALAGUER defeated BOSCH in an election to become president .
BALAGUER maintained a tight grip on power for most of the next 30 years when international reaction to flawed elections forced him to curtail his term in 1996 .
Since then , regular competitive elections have been held in which opposition candidates have won the presidency .
Former President ( 1996 - 2000 ) Leonel FERNANDEZ Reyna won election to a new term in 2004 following a constitutional amendment allowing presidents to serve more than one term , and was since reelected to a second consecutive term .
Popes in their secular role ruled portions of the Italian peninsula for more than a thousand years until the mid 19th century , when many of the Papal States were seized by the newly united Kingdom of Italy .
In 1870 , the pope 's holdings were further circumscribed when Rome itself was annexed .
Disputes between a series of " prisoner " popes and Italy were resolved in 1929 by three Lateran Treaties , which established the independent state of Vatican City and granted Roman Catholicism special status in Italy .
In 1984 , a concordat between the Holy See and Italy modified certain of the earlier treaty provisions , including the primacy of Roman Catholicism as the Italian state religion .
Present concerns of the Holy See include religious freedom , international development , the environment , the Middle East , China , the decline of religion in Europe , terrorism , interreligious dialogue and reconciliation , and the application of church doctrine in an era of rapid change and globalization .
About 1 billion people worldwide profess the Catholic faith .
AN ASS congratulated a Horse on being so ungrudgingly and carefully provided for , while he himself had scarcely enough to eat and not even that without hard work .
But when war broke out , a heavily armed soldier mounted the Horse , and riding him to the charge , rushed into the very midst of the enemy .
The Horse was wounded and fell dead on the battlefield .
Then the Ass , seeing all these things , changed his mind , and commiserated the Horse .
" SEE these valuable golden eggs , " said a Man that owned a Goose .
" Surely a Goose which can lay such eggs as those must have a gold mine inside her . "
So he killed the Goose and cut her open , but found that she was just like any other goose .
Moreover , on examining the eggs that she had laid he found they were just like any other eggs .
Lawyers in Pakistan continued their protest marches this week amid an effort to press the government to reinstate the judges replaced last year by President Pervez Musharraf .
After weeks of negotiations with his fellow coalition leader Nawaz Sharif , Asif Ali Zardari says despite differences , he remains confident the two parties will reach agreement .
And some Pakistanis now living in the U.S. say the new government can not succeed without independent judges .
VOA 's Ravi Khanna reports President Musharraf , so far , has made no public comment .
A General Electric subsidiary in Brazil that provides maintenance to Brazil 's financially-troubled Vasp airline , is asking a local court to declare the carrier bankrupt .
Celma , a subsidiary of the U.S. company , said Wednesday that Brazil 's fourth-largest airline owes it some $ 3.2 million .
The announcement follows Vasp 's firing Tuesday of 380 of its more than 5,000 workers .
The airline also took six planes out of service recently .
Vasp is one of several Brazilian airlines that have suffered financial troubles in recent years due to a drop in passenger demand .
Cameroon state radio reports as many as 30 people have died or are missing from a boat accident off the coast in the Gulf of Guinea .
The radio report Tuesday said 30 other people survived the accident and were being treated at a local hospital .
It said the boat was traveling from Nigeria to Gabon when it went down late Monday near the southwestern fishing village of Campo .
The report said the boat was carrying nationals from Nigeria , Mali and Benin when it capsized .
It is not clear what caused the accident .
The Gulf of Guinea is often used as a transit route by West Africans looking to find jobs in Gabon and Cameroon .
The small Midwestern town of Slater ,
Missouri is planning a three-day festival to honor its most illustrious inhabitant , Steve McQueen .
Although born in Indiana , the movie star spent most of his childhood in Slater on his great-uncle 's farm .
Dubbed " The King Of Cool , " Mc Queen starred in a series of famous films in the 1960s and '70s , among them The Great Escape , Bullitt , and Papillon .
He died of cancer in 1980 at age 50 .
Running March 23-25 , " Steve McQueen Days " will include screenings of his movies , a show of memorabilia , and tours of his boyhood home and former school .
Nuclear envoys from North and South Korea have met in Beijing as part of attempts to resume six-party talks on Pyongyang 's nuclear weapons program .
Tuesday 's meeting between the South 's Chun Yung-woo and the North 's Kim Kye Kwan is the latest in a series of diplomatic consultations among the six nations involved in the nuclear talks .
Over the past week , U.S. nuclear envoy Christopher Hill met his counterparts from South Korea , Japan and China to brief them on his talks with North Korea 's Kim in Berlin earlier this month .
Diplomats say Beijing , which hosts the talks , could announce a date for the next round in a few days .
Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso said Tuesday another round of negotiations would be meaningless unless it specifically addresses the issue of North Korean denuclearization .
The U.S. military has opened a preliminary investigation into additional allegations of detainee abuse in Iraq .
In California Saturday , a military spokesman said the U.S. Navy launched the probe after being given photographs of Iraqi detainees allegedly being abused by Navy special forces in May 2003 , months before the Abu Ghraib prison scandal .
The Associated Press news agency says one of its reporters found the photographs posted on the Internet , and turned more than a dozen over to Navy officials on Friday .
Also Saturday , pre-trial hearings for two soldiers accused of abusing prisoners at Baghdad 's Abu Ghraib prison in late 2003 got under way on a military base in Texas .
Health officials in Indonesia say local tests show an Indonesian man who died last week was infected with the bird flu virus .
Authorities say the man was in frequent contact with poultry .
The World Health Organization confirmed Sunday that two women who died in Indonesia last week had contracted the H5N1 virus that has killed almost 90 people worldwide since 2003 .
Elsewhere , Iranian officials say laboratory tests have confirmed bird flu has killed 135 swans on the Caspian Sea coast .
If international tests confirm the birds died of the H5N1 strain of the virus , it will be its first appearance in Iran .
In Vienna , Austrian officials say the deadly virus has been confirmed in two dead swans found near the southern city of Graz .
Croatian officials also believe the virus killed at least eight swans found in recent days in the Zagreb area .
Iran says a rise in oil production by OPEC as requested by the United States will not affect record prices in a market already saturated with oil .
Iranian Oil Minister Gholam Hossein Nozari told reporters Saturday in Tehran that increasing production will only increase oil inventories .
On Friday , Saudi Arabia rejected a request by U.S. President George Bush for Riyadh to raise oil production in hopes of controlling soaring gas prices .
Iran is OPEC 's second largest oil producer after Saudi Arabia .
Oil prices reached a record high of nearly $ 128 per barrel Friday .
General Amin al-Hindi , a former Palestinian intelligence chief who may have played a role in the deadly 1972 Munich attack on the Israeli Olympics team , has died .
He was 70 .
Palestinian officials say al-Hindi died of cancer at a hospital in Jordan , Tuesday , after slipping into a coma .
They say his body was transported to the West Bank , Wednesday , for burial .
Al-Hindi was a senior security officer in the Fatah party .
He also served as head of intelligence services under former Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat .
Commandos with " Black September " -- a group linked to Arafat 's Fatah faction -- infiltrated the Olympic village in Munich at the 1972 summer games .
The commandoes stormed a dormitory housing Israelis , an attack that led to the deaths of 11 athletes .
Relatives of more than 100 Iranians killed in the crash of a military plane say officials ordered the transport to fly Tuesday despite repeated warnings from the pilot that the aircraft was unsafe .
The Hamshahri newspaper quotes the wife of one of the victims as saying her husband told her by cell phone that the C-130 aircraft sat on a runway in Tehran for three hours Tuesday because the pilot refused to fly .
An official of another newspaper , Shargh told VOA 's Persian service he was told by a staffer aboard the doomed plane that passengers were waiting on a runway for a replacement pilot .
The army is denying the accusations , and Iran 's top prosecutor appointed a special judge to probe the crash .
The plane carrying Iranian journalists crashed into a 10-story apartment building minutes after take-off Tuesday afternoon , killing all 94 people on board and at least 22 others on the ground .
Tens of thousands of people have protested outside the Indian factory set to produce the world 's cheapest car , to demand the auto company return the land to local farmers .
Authorities in West Bengal state deployed nearly 3,000 police to protect the Tata Motors factory site Sunday as more than 40,000 protesters lined the highway leading to the factory .
Farmers say Tata Motors did not properly compensate them for the land used for the factory site .
They have vowed to continue protesting until the 160 hectares of disputed land are returned .
Tata Motors said Friday the protests may force it to relocate the factory .
The factory is set to roll out the first $ 2,500 " Nano " cars by October .
Tata Motors plans to manufacture a quarter-million of the cars each year .
Hundreds of Pakistanis are fleeing villages in North West Frontier Province , where fighting between government troops and militants loyal to a pro-Taliban religious leader raged for a third straight day .
Army spokesman Major General Waheed Arshad says 10 militants were killed Sunday in fighting with security forces backed by helicopter gunships .
On Saturday , Pakistani officials said militants had executed 13 people , including seven civilians .
The Swat valley has been the scene of battles since Friday after authorities sent more than 2,000 soldiers to counter growing militancy from cleric Maulana Fazlullah .
He is trying to establish strict Islamic law in the area .
In other news , three rockets hit Peshawar , the capital of North West Frontier Province , early Sunday .
Police say one of the rockets landed near the U.S. Consulate , however no deaths were reported .
A senior Cuban official has lashed out at the United Nations , saying it has done very little to achieve the goals outlined in the Millennium Declaration .
Cuban National Assembly speaker Ricardo Alarcon made the comment Friday in a speech before the UN World Summit in New York .
Mr. Alarcon said the governments attending the summit have failed to do enough to meet the eight objectives in the declaration , which included reducing poverty and hunger , making education accessible to everyone and combating HIV / AIDS .
He said there has been a setback in many of the objectives .
Mr. Alarcon also described proposed U.N. reforms as an " unforgivable sham " he said were designed by wealthy countries to turn the United Nations into an instrument of global dictatorship .
A South African official was set to meet union leaders in an effort to avert a strike by 9,00,000 public service workers .
The workers , represented by a coalition of unions , are seeking an increase to the government 's offer of a 6.5 percent pay hike .
One union , the 2,10,000 member Public Servants Association , says its workers could go on strike Thursday .
The other workers have threatened to walk off their jobs next week .
Public Service and Administration Minister Richard Baloyi has called for any strikes to be delayed until he is able to meet with union leaders Thursday .
A group of rebel militias in the Democratic Republic of Congo ( DRC ) says it has suspended participation in a 2008 cease-fire agreement .
The rebel groups have released a statement citing a number of reasons for their decision , including the government 's arrest of some of their members .
In January 2008 , rebels in the eastern DRC signed a peace accord with the government aimed at ending years of fighting in the region .
The country 's five-year civil war formally ended in 2003 .
However , militias and rebel groups have remained active in some eastern areas , especially North Kivu province .
Bloomberg news reports that Congo 's communications minister has dismissed the militias ' statement .
The news agency quotes Lambert Mende as saying the militias think they " are in charge of the peace process , but they are not . "
China has confirmed an outbreak of the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu among ducks in southern Guangdong province .
Hong Kong 's health secretary York Chow said Monday Chinese agriculture ministry officials confirmed that tests indicate the presence of H5N1 in Panyu district .
More than 9,000 ducks died on five farms in Panyu this month .
More than 32,000 ducks were then culled to help contain the outbreak .
The area is near Hong Kong , where health officials Monday suspended imports of chilled and frozen duck and geese from Guangdong for one week .
The H5N1 strain of avian influenza is deadly to humans .
The World Health Organization reports there have been at least 25 human cases of avian flu confirmed in China in recent years , 16 of them fatal .
U.S. Navy officials say a U.S. ship encountered three small Iranian speed boats Thursday in the Persian Gulf .
The officials said Friday the USS Typhoon was in the central Gulf when at least one of three high-speed boats approached the ship .
The officials said the boats kept their distance after the Navy ship fired a warning flare .
It is unclear whether the speed boats were armed .
Iranian arabic television Al-Alam reports the Iranian navy denies the incident .
The U.S. Defense Department has said there were three confrontations between the U.S. Navy and Iranian forces in the Persian Gulf from December to January .
One ended after a U.S. ship fired warning shots to deter the Iranian vessel .
Chinese officials have confirmed a new outbreak of bird flu among poultry in the Tibetan capital of Lhasa .
The official Xinhua news agency quoted China 's ministry of agriculture as saying officials found the H5N1 strain of bird flu , which can be fatal to humans , in poultry sold at a market in Lhasa on April 12 .
The ministry said it had taken emergency measures , culling more than 1,600 birds , and that the epidemic is under control .
Officials also said no one who came into contact with the infected poultry has shown any signs of the disease .
The World Health Organization says bird flu has killed more than 250 people since it resurfaced in Asia in 2003 .
At least five people have died from bird flu in China this year .
International public health officials are calling for a stronger global response to drug-resistant tuberculosis .
The call was made after American lawyer Andrew Speaker , who is infected with a form of tuberculosis that is resistant to most antibiotics , traveled aboard commercial airliners from the United States to Europe and back .
VOA 's Jessica Berman reports .
Officials at the World Health Organization estimate there are at least 4,00,000 new cases of tuberculosis each year that do not respond to two or more standard antibiotics .
Of these , WHO experts say 25,000 to 30,000 individuals are infected with extremely drug-resistant TB , or XDR TB , which is resistant not only to two or more standard antibiotics , but three or more of a newer class of antibiotics .
Andrew Speaker , who lives in Atlanta , Georgia and flew to Europe and back with his fiance , is infected with XDR TB .
Speaker has been in isolation since his return .
European public health officials were not notified about the case until Speaker was back in the United States .
Mario Raviglione is Director of the Stop TB Department at the WHO .
Although governments are considering ways to improve screening of people with infectious diseases at the border , Raviglione says that would be difficult to implement .
What is needed , accorded to Raviglione , are better measures to contain XTR TB , including rapid testing and new drugs .
" Here we are facing one of the highest burden diseases of the world , where the amount of money that is being spent , particularly internationally to help countries that are in need like African countries , is badly , badly insufficient , " he said .
Meanwhile , U.S. lawmakers have introduced legislation to prevent the spread of tuberculosis in the United States , and at least one hearing is scheduled to investigate the Andrew Speaker incident .
Leaders of the Palestinian militant group Hamas say five children and three women were among 13 injured after a blast at a Hamas base in the Gaza Strip .
The powerful explosion Wednesday ripped through the Hamas al-Qassam Brigades military training facility in the southern Gaza Strip .
In a statement , Hamas did not give a cause for the blast .
The Israeli military says it was not involved .
The blast shook through the densely crowded Tel As-Sultan neighborhood in Rafah .
Hamas said the injured were hit by flying glass shrapnel .
The Gaza-based Palestinian Center for Human Rights has repeatedly called on the territory 's Hamas rulers not to store explosive materials in civilian areas .
A weapons explosion in August wounded 58 people and destroyed seven houses .
European Union lawmakers say they will press U.S. and European leaders to appear before an inquiry into alleged secret CIA prisons in Europe .
The vice president of an investigative panel looking into the matter , Sarah Ludford , said Thursday U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld , British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw and other foreign and defense ministers could be invited to appear before the panel .
But EU officials concede they have no legal authority to subpoena them .
The 46-member temporary committee was created this month after reports by U.S. media and human rights groups of secret CIA prisons in new East European EU member states .
European officials say the committee will try to find out whether the U.S. or other nations abducted suspects , transported them to countries where they could be aggressively interrogated , and housed them at secret detention sites .
Police in India have arrested a Muslim man in connection with last week 's bombing of a historic mosque in the southern city of Hyderabad that killed 11 people .
Five more people died in police shootings during riots that erupted after the bombing of the 17th century Mecca Mashjid mosque .
Officials say Friday the suspect was detained Tuesday in a small town , Jalna , in western Maharashtra state .
He is the first person to be detained for questioning about the attack .
Security remains tight around the Hyderabad mosque with thousands of police deployed to the area .
Shortly after Friday prayers Friday , police used batons to beat back worshippers protesting the official inquiry into the bombing .
There has been no claim of responsibility for the attack , the third against a mosque in India during the past year .
Officials in Saudi Arabia say authorities have arrested three men with alleged al-Qaida links , including one who officials say was preparing for attacks .
The Interior Ministry says the three used the Internet to spread the ideology of al-Qaida .
It says one of the suspects , identified as Saudi national Abu Osaid al-Falluji , was allegedly involved in recruiting , seeking funding and preparing for terrorist operations .
The ministry says the second suspect , a Saudi national identified as Abu Abdullah al-Najdi , attempted to publish an edition of the al-Qaida online newsletter Sawt al-Jihad .
The third suspect also allegedly planned to use the Internet to disseminate a jihadist publication .
The Saudi government launched an aggressive anti-terrorism campaign after al-Qaida militants launched dramatic terrorist attacks against Western targets in 2003 .
Washington and Kabul have agreed in principle to gradually transfer most Afghans in U.S. custody to the Afghan government .
A joint statement issued in Kabul says the Afghan government has agreed to make sure that the returning Afghans pose no threat .
Washington will help Afghanistan in building jails and providing appropriate training .
President Karzai 's spokesman , Khaleeq Ahmed , said Afghan prisoners from the Guantanamo Bay detention center and the US detention facilities in Afghanistan will be among those handed over .
President Bush and Afghan President Hamid Karzai expressed a strong desire to return Afghan detainees to Afghanistan when they met in Washington in May .
US , Asian , and European stock prices declined Monday , extending a week of losses on the world 's markets .
Major U.S. stock indexes swung between gains and losses in Monday 's volatile trading but were down as much as one percent by the close .
Some analysts said traders were worried about mortgage defaults , a strengthening yen , and tumbling stock markets abroad .
Major indexes in London , Paris , and Frankfurt also lost as much as one percent .
Asian stock markets were hit even harder , with major indexes in Japan , Hong Kong , and India down between three and four percent at the close of trading .
The losses Monday follow major declines in stock prices last week in many markets .
An almost nine percent slump in Shanghai last Tuesday triggered a wave of selling on global markets , many of which had been trading near record highs .
China is reporting its ninth human bird flu death .
Officials confirmed Sunday that a 32-year-old man in Guangdong province , which borders Hong Kong , died from the H5N1 virus last week .
Authorities in Hong Kong have announced a ban on poultry and live bird imports from Guangdong .
Meanwhile , French officials report finding bird flu in a dead wild bird on the Mediterranean coast .
This is several hundred kilometers south of France 's other bird flu outbreak on a turkey farm .
More than 40 countries have banned French poultry imports .
Also , Poland is reporting its first H5N1 cases in two swans in the northern city of Torun .
Bird flu has killed at least 94 people worldwide since 2003 , mostly in Asia .
Allies of Iran 's president-elect are denying allegations by several Americans held hostage in Iran more than 25 years ago that he played a key role in their detention .
Aides to Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , and several of the 1979 hostage takers , insist he did not participate in the international standoff .
In interviews with U.S. news media , several former hostages described Mr. Ahmadinejad as " a cruel individual " who interrogated the captives .
But other hostages say they do n't remember him .
Mr. Ahmadinejad was in his early 20 's at the time of the hostage taking and has not publicly addressed the allegations .
The White House says it is looking into the allegations .
A group of radical Iranian students stormed the U.S. embassy in Tehran in November 1979 and held 52 Americans hostage for 444 days .
Los Angeles is one of the world 's most diverse cities , and a summer music series there brings together the city 's many ethnic communities .
A recent performance by Seun Kuti , son of Afro-beat legend Fela Kuti , kicked off this year 's concert series , bringing the sounds of Lagos , Nigeria to downtown Los Angeles .
Six-thousand people came to celebrate the music and the city 's multi-cultural heritage .
Nnamdi Moweta reports .
Police in Zimbabwe have arrested a nephew of President Robert Mugabe on suspicion of smuggling 30 tons of scarce flour to neighboring Mozambique .
The state-run Herald newspaper reports Leo Mugabe , a ruling ZANU-PF party member of parliament , is expected to appear in court Thursday .
The paper says he will face charges of illegally dealing in controlled products .
The report says the smuggled flour was worth about $ 19 million .
The Herald says smuggled sugar and flour are sold cheaply in Mozambique , undercutting production from that country 's own industries .
Last year , President Mugabe began an anti-corruption drive that has led to the arrest of several prominent Zimbabwean politicians .
Over the last five years , Zimbabwe has struggled with hyper-inflation and chronic shortages of food , fuel and cash .
The U.S. Justice Department is reopening an investigation into the Bush administration 's domestic surveillance program , marking a major reversal in policy under new Attorney General Michael Mukasey .
The probe will focus on the conduct of Justice Department lawyers in approving the program , which allows the National Security Agency to eavesdrop on the e-mail and telephone conversations of Americans without getting prior approval from a special court .
The Bush administration implemented the program after the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks , and said it focused on intercepting international calls and e-mails of Americans and others in the U.S. with suspected terrorism links .
Attorney General Mukasey was formally sworn in Wednesday at a ceremonial event attended by President Bush .
The Justice Department 's Office of Professional Responsibility began the probe in early 2006 , but abandoned it after President Bush denied security clearances to investigators .
Iraqi officials say at least five people were killed and several others wounded Monday in two separate insurgent attacks in Baghdad .
They say the attacks , involving one suicide car bombing , took place in a southern district of Baghdad and that they were aimed at senior police and government officials .
An Iraqi militant group ( the Islamic Army of Iraq ) posted a video on the Internet today that showed a blindfolded man being shot in the back of the head .
( The pictures did not show the victim 's face . )
The group claimed the killing was of American hostage Ronald Allen Schultz , who was abducted earlier this month .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says eight high-level detainees from the former Iraqi regime have been freed .
A spokesman ( Lt. Col. Barry Johnson ) said the men were freed Saturday , after a board found that they were no longer security threats .
The media watchdog , Reporters Without Borders , says there has been an upsurge in violence against the media in Latin America .
In its annual press freedom report released Tuesday , the group said a total of 12 journalists and two media assistants were killed in the region last year .
The countries in which the 14 were killed include Brazil , Colombia , Haiti , Peru , Nicaragua and Ecuador .
Reporters Without Borders says violence against the media has decreased in several countries , including Bolivia , Guatemala and Haiti .
The group describes press freedom in Cuba as disastrous and dubs it the region 's only prison for journalists , with 22 currently imprisoned .
Reporters Without Borders released Tuesday 's report to coincide with World Press Freedom Day .
China says it will reopen Tibet to foreign tourists , after closing it during violent protests in March .
Chinese state media Tuesday quote regional tourism officials as saying the Tibet Autonomous Region will be opened to outsiders on Wednesday .
The Xinhua news agency reports that two Swedish tourists will arrive in the Tibetan capital , Lhasa , on Wednesday and four tourists from Singapore will arrive on Sunday .
Tourists have been prevented from traveling to the region since riots against the Chinese government erupted in Lhasa on March 14 , sparking a harsh crackdown by Chinese troops .
Tibet 's government-in-exile says more than 200 people died in the crackdown on mostly monk-led protests .
China blames Tibetan rioters for the deaths of at least 20 people .
A French aid group says it will suspend activities in Darfur because the situation in western Sudan has become too dangerous for its workers .
The group Medecins du Monde ( Doctors of the World ) said Monday , it has suspended its activities in Darfur for an undetermined period of time .
Officials said there is an imbalance between the help it is able to provide and the risks to its staff members .
Medecins du Monde has provided medical care in Darfur since the middle of 2004 , assisting thousands of refugees in the Kalma refugee camp .
It also operated mobile clinics to treat refugees in remote villages .
Aid groups and United Nations officials have reported a worsening of Darfur 's security situation in recent months .
More than 2,00,000 people have died and more than two million others have been displaced since fighting between Darfur rebels and Sudan 's government began in early 2003 .
A Human Rights Watch representative says his expulsion from Venezuela following a critical report shows that President Hugo Chavez will not tolerate any criticism .
HRW 's Director for the Americas Jose Miguel Vivanco spoke to reporters Friday in Sao Paulo , Brazil .
Vivanco and his deputy were kicked out of the country
Thursday after their group released a report saying Venezuela 's human rights policies have suffered under President Chavez .
Venezuela 's Foreign Ministry accused HRW of attacking the country 's democratic institutions and illegally interfering in Venezuela 's internal affairs .
The HRW report accused the Chavez government of discriminating against political opponents , undermining freedoms of expression and association and disregarding the need for an independent judiciary .
It also said the government was trying to restrict the work of Venezuelan rights advocates .
Venezuela is buying naval ships and transport aircraft worth more than $ 1.5 billion from Spain .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez signed the deal with Spanish Defense Minister Jose Bono in Caracas Monday .
Under the deal , Venezuela will receive ocean patrol boats , coastal patrol vessels , and maritime surveillance planes .
Reuters news agency quotes a Venezuelan naval commander , Armando Laguna , as saying the equipment will delivered by 2010 .
Last week , the U.S. government threatened to block the transfer of U.S. parts and technology in the planes and boats included in the deal .
Venezuela says it could get technology from other countries if need be .
Venezuela has also signed deals this year for a Brazilian aircraft and 1,00,000 Kalashnikov assault rifles from Russia to combat the drug trade along the border with Colombia .
Israeli aircraft have fired missiles into the Gaza Strip , killing six people , including a senior commander of the Popular Resistance Committee .
The Israeli army said a vehicle carrying several militants was hit Friday as it was leaving a training camp in the southern Gaza town of Rafah .
Palestinian officials say Iyad Abu al-Aynin and his young daughter were among those killed in the attack .
The Popular Resistance Committee is an umbrella organization with ties to the militant Islamic group Hamas , which took control of the Palestinian government last week .
Palestinian officials , meanwhile , have been giving conflicting accounts about the Hamas-led government 's willingness to embrace a two-state solution with Israel .
On Friday , Hamas leaders did , however , confirm a report in the Israeli newspaper Haaretzthat the group was trying to broker a deal to extend a truce it has been observing with Israel for the past year .
Turkish officials say an avalanche has killed at least six people and trapped around six others under snow .
Officials say the avalanche hit a group of some 15 hikers Sunday on Mount Zigana , in Turkey 's northeastern Gumushane province .
A Turkish news agency ( NTV ) says the military has sent rescuers to the scene where several people have been pulled from the snow .
Turkey is wrinkled by rugged mountain ranges that surround and intersect the high , semiarid Anatolian plateau .
Most of Turkey lies within an earthquake zone , and recurrent tremors have been known to cause avalanches in the area .
The European Union has warned Saudi Arabia it will take action at the World Trade Organization , if the kingdom supports a widening Muslim boycott of Danish products .
EU Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson issued the warning as protests over cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad spread across the Muslim world .
The cartoons were published in a Danish newspaper in September and include an image of the prophet wearing a turban shaped like a bomb .
In the Gaza Strip Monday , gunmen briefly occupied an EU office .
And a Danish dairy company , Arla Foods , says its products have been boycotted throughout the Middle East .
Last week , Saudi Arabia recalled its ambassador to Denmark .
Libya has already closed its embassy in Denmark .
The latest opinion polls show Canada 's opposition Conservative Party with at least a 10-point lead as the country prepares for Monday 's parliamentary election .
If Prime Minister Paul Martin loses on Monday , the Liberal Party will be out of power for the first time in 12 years .
Mr. Martin , a former finance minister , is hoping the electorate will credit him with Canada 's booming economy .
However , his administration has been mired in a corruption scandal that originated under his predecessor , Jean Chretien .
Mr. Martin 's opponent is Stephen Harper , who convinced several conservative political alliances to merge and form the Conservative Party in 2003 .
The prime minister has tried to depict his challenger as an extremist on social issues .
Mr. Harper -- an economist -- has been running on a platform of tax cuts and shifting more power away from the national government to the provinces .
Ukrainian opposition presidential candidate Viktor Yushchenko has accused his rival of trying to steal last month 's flawed election .
During a debate in Kiev Monday , Mr. Yushchenko said the motivating force for a new vote is that Ukrainians desire a democratically elected government .
Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych tried to distance himself from former supporter and current President Leonid Kuchma .
He said many Ukrainians lost hope after the breakup of the former Soviet Union , and that it was important for all political forces to work together .
Mr. Yushchenko made his opening remarks in Ukrainian .
Mr. Yanukovych gave his in Russian .
Tensions remain high as both men have warned of potential clashes between supporters prior to the December 26th vote .
Mr. Yushchenko 's assertion that Ukrainian security officials poisoned him with a highly toxic form of dioxin has further inflamed the political divisions .
Cuban President Fidel Castro has ordered three days of official state mourning for Pope John Paul , an unusual move for the Communist nation .
The Cuban leader also suspended planned Communist youth festivities as well as the finals of the national baseball league .
Church bells tolled for over 30 minutes late Saturday , after the pope 's death was announced at the Vatican .
John Paul was the only pope ever to visit Cuba , in 1998 , and he has been praised by Havana for what members of the Castro government saw as the church leader 's opposition to " neo-liberal capitalism . "
The European Union 's anti-piracy naval force says Somali pirates have hijacked a North Korean-flagged cargo ship .
The EU force says hijackers seized the MV Rim Wednesday in the Gulf of Aden , just south of the Yemeni coast .
In a statement , the EU force says the vessel has altered course and is now heading towards the Somali basin .
The statement says investigators are not certain how many crew members are on board the Libyan-owned ship , and do not know the nationalities of crew members .
The statement says the vessel was outside a recommended travel corridor and had not made contact with maritime authorities in the region .
Somali pirates have hijacked dozens of ships over the last two years , taking in tens of millions of dollars in ransom .
On Monday , pirates released a Greek-owned cargo ship they captured two months earlier , after receiving a payment of some $ 3 million .
Catholic and Jewish mourners have gathered for the funeral of the former Roman Catholic archbishop of Paris , Cardinal Jean-Marie Lustiger .
Friday 's service was held in Paris at the Notre Dame Cathedral and began with a Jewish prayer .
His coffin was then carried inside the cathedral to be placed in a crypt .
Lustiger , who was born to Jewish parents before converting to Catholicism , had requested that his funeral include both faiths .
The cardinal was known for his work promoting greater understanding between Catholics and Jews .
He died on Sunday at the age of 80 .
French President Nicolas Sarkozy interrupted his vacation in the United States to attend the funeral .
He heads back to the U.S. Friday for a meeting with U.S. President George Bush .
Kazakhstan 's parliament has backed a call for a referendum to extend the rule of patriarchal President Nursultan Nazarbayev to 2020 .
Members of the lower house of parliament announced the initiative Wednesday , which could allow the popular president to skip elections scheduled for 2012 .
The president 's office has not yet commented on the move .
The 70-year old leader has ruled the former Soviet state for the past 20 years .
His support in the lower house of parliament is practically guaranteed .
The chamber is completely dominated by the ruling party , with not a single seat held by the opposition .
Critics complain about a lack of democracy under Mr. Nazarbayev 's rule .
His supporters praise him for bolstering Kazakhstan 's economy with investments in energy development .
Nigerian health officials are awaiting the results of tests to see if two sick children may be infected with the lethal strain of the bird flu virus .
Samples taken Sunday from the children and their family will determine if they are the first human victims of the disease in Africa .
The children are from the northern state of Kaduna , where officials have confirmed discovery of a " highly pathogenic " version of the H5N1 strain on a chicken farm .
It was Africa 's first reported case of the lethal strain of bird flu .
That strain has since been confirmed in the Nigerian states of Plateau and Kano , where as many as 20 farms may be affected .
International experts continue to arrive in Nigeria to help with containment efforts , that have included the killing of thousands of chickens across the region .
President Bush has an aggressive agenda for his trip to Europe during the coming week , including planned talks on a number of Middle East issues .
In his weekly radio address , Saturday , Mr. Bush said the United States and Europe share common goals of helping rebuild Iraq , spreading democracy across the gobe and working for peace in the Middle East .
On Friday , in an interview with European reporters , Mr. Bush said the United States ' past disagreements with European allies over the Iraq war do not diminish their shared values .
He also said he plans to discuss concerns about the Middle East , Iran 's nuclear program and the environment during three days of talks with European leaders in Brussels , his first stop .
Mr. Bush will also meet German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and Russian President Vladimir Putin during his trip .
An Islamic militant group in Iraq says it has taken a U.S. soldier hostage and is threatening to kill him unless Iraqis held in U.S. prisons are freed within 72 hours .
A group calling itself the Mujahedeen Squadrons made the kidnapping claim and demand in a statement posted on an Islamist website Tuesday , along with a photograph of the alleged captive .
The Internet statement 's authenticity could not be verified , and the U.S. military said it could not confirm the claim .
Indonesian health officials have confirmed the country 's fourth death from bird flu , bringing to 63 the number of people across Asia who have died from the virus since 2003 .
Authorities Friday said recent tests indicate an Indonesian woman who died last week in a Jakarta hospital was infected with the H5N1 strain of avian flu .
Indonesia 's health ministry says it is investigating whether a neighbor of the victim is also infected .
The bird flu strain has killed at least 43 people in Vietnam since 2003 , at least 12 in Thailand and four in Cambodia .
Health experts fear the virus could infect millions of people worldwide if it changes into a form that can be spread easily by human-to-human contact .
Authorities are continuing emergency rescue efforts after Hurricane Katrina slammed the Gulf Coast of the United States .
Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour says the death toll could be as high as 80 in one Mississippi county alone .
The powerful storm cut a path of destruction through ( the southern U.S. states of ) Louisiana , Alabama and Mississippi , uprooting trees and destroying homes and buildings .
Rescuers used helicopters to pluck stranded residents from rooftops of houses submerged in flooding .
The death toll is expected to rise .
Live power lines are down and gas lines ruptured , and authorities are warning residents not to return to their homes yet .
The storm came ashore early Monday and has cut power to more than one-million residents .
Officials say it could be weeks before residents are allowed back into the area .
Forecasters say the storm is now centered in northern Mississippi , and moving northeast .
Japan and North Korea are to hold talks this week on issues that have blocked the two countries from forging diplomatic ties .
Japan 's chief cabinet secretary , Shinzo Abe , said Wednesday the talks will take place in Beijing Saturday and Sunday .
He said discussions will focus on the abduction of Japanese citizens by North Korea , as well as reparation requests by North Korea related to Japan 's occupation of the Korean Peninsula from 1910 to World War II .
Mr. Abe reiterated Japan 's stance that normalizing relations with North Korea will not be possible until the abduction issue is resolved .
North Korea admits kidnapping 13 Japanese citizens to train its spies in the 1970s and 1980s .
Pyongyang has returned five , but says the other eight are dead .
Japan wants conclusive proof of their deaths and says there are other cases of suspected abductions that Pyongyang has not properly addressed .
Azerbaijani police have used water cannon and clubs to disperse opposition supporters who were protesting what they consider to be rigged elections and were demanding a new vote .
Police waded into the crowd of at least 10,000 activists in a Baku square after protest leaders announced their intention to remain on the scene beyond the time authorities had allotted for the demonstration .
The protesters hurled stones at the officers .
Witnesses reported a number of injuries .
The clashes were the first time police have intervened to disperse protesters , who have staged a series of demonstrations protesting the November 6 parliamentary vote .
Official election results show the governing party still in control of parliament .
International monitors said the vote fell below democratic standards .
The U.S. embassy in Baku deplored what it called " the unjustified and unprovoked use of force against citizens peacefully exercising their right of assembly . "
A U.S. newspaper report says some U.S. officials are critical of Afghan President Hamid Karzai 's efforts to curtail Afghanistan 's huge heroin trade .
The New York Times , in a story published Sunday , says U.S. diplomats in Kabul expressed alarm at the slow pace of poppy eradication in a recent memo to U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice .
The memo accuses local officials and village elders of hampering a U.S.-funded program to destroy poppy crops used to make the illegal drug .
And it faults top Afghan officials , including Mr. Karzai for doing little to overcome that resistance .
The Times says the criticism of Mr. Karzai reflects mounting frustration among some American officials that plans to uproot large swaths of Afghanistan 's poppy crop have produced little success .
The newspaper says some State Department officials defended the Afghan president , saying bad weather and logistical problems also contributed to the ineffectiveness of the eradication program .
Fighting in southern Somalia continued for a second straight day between militias run by two lawmakers in a dispute over where to locate the country 's transitional government .
Reports from Baidoa , located several nearly 300 kilometers west of Mogadishu , say fighters commanded by Mohamed Ibrahim Habsadeh took control of the city early Sunday after heavy fighting against forces aligned with Colonel Hassan Mohamed Nur Shargudud .
The French news agency , AFP , reports that at least 15 people have been killed in two days of clashes .
On Saturday , witnesses said at least five people were killed .
In addition to the location of the transitional government , Mr. Habsadeh and Colonel Shargudud are engaged in a dispute over whether to allow neighboring countries to take part in a regional peacekeeping force .
A published report quotes Iraqi President Jalal Talabani as saying an immediate withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq would have " catastrophic consequences " for the region .
In an interview published Tuesday in the French newspaper Le Figaro , President Talabani warned against a withdrawal of U.S.-led coalition forces at this time .
He says coalition forces will only withdraw when Iraqi forces are ready to maintain security on their own .
President Talabani also says civil war can still be avoided in Iraq .
He says Iraqi political leaders understand violence is not an option .
Mr. Talabani is scheduled to arrive in Paris on Wednesday for his first official visit to France .
He is expected to hold talks with French President Jacques Chirac Thursday .
Governments in several countries in the Middle East have denounced the bomb blasts in London Thursday .
Syria 's President Bashar al-Assad condemned the attacks in a cable sent to Prime Minister Tony Blair .
In Tehran , a spokesman for Iran 's foreign ministry , Hamidreza Asefi , expressed his condolences for the victims and their relatives and said terrorism was inappropriate for achieving any aims .
The kingdom of Saudi Arabia condemned the blasts and said it continues to support intensifying efforts to combat terrorism .
Both Israeli and Palestinian Authority officials condemned the blasts .
And authorities in Kuwait , the United Arab Emirates , Lebanon and Turkey also denounced the attacks .
British Prime Minister Gordon Brown is to make his first visit to the United States next week to meet with President Bush .
The White House announced the two-day visit Thursday , saying Brown will arrive at Mr. Bush 's Camp David retreat to the north of the U.S. capital , on July 29 .
A White House spokesman says the two will discuss a broad range of issues , including progress in Iraq and Afghanistan , ending genocide in Darfur and protecting the United States and the United Kingdom from terrorists .
Last month , Prime Minister Brown succeeded Tony Blair , whose critics complained about his support for the U.S.-led war in Iraq .
A suicide bomber blew himself up in a packed mosque Friday in northwestern Pakistan , killing at least 50 people and wounding around 70 others .
Officials said the mosque , full of worshippers for Friday prayers , was destroyed and has collapsed .
It is located near a police check point and is visited by paramilitary forces and tribal police .
There has been no claim of responsibility .
The attack took place in Jamrud town in the Khyber tribal agency , an area where Islamic insurgents have increased attacks on trucks carrying supplies for U.S. and NATO troops in Afghanistan .
The bombing came just hours before U.S. President Barack Obama announced a comprehensive new strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan .
Mr. Obama says al-Qaida terrorists are planning more attacks on the United States from safe havens in Pakistan and urged Islamabad to be a stronger partner in the fight against militants .
The international media rights group , Reporters Without Borders , says it is concerned about a decision by Venezuelan authorities to charge a television journalist with defaming the country 's Supreme Court .
The rights group said in a statement Friday that the state prosecutor 's office filed an " insult " charge against Venevision TV journalist Napoleon Bravo Wednesday .
The group says he faces 15 months in prison , if convicted .
The organization says the charge against Bravo , whose real name is Jose Ovidio Rodriguez Cuesta , stems from a September 2004 broadcast on his program 24 Hours in which he criticized Venezuela 's entire judicial system .
The Bravo case is the first to be tried under a new Venezuelan law that increases sanctions for press offenses .
The media rights group says the case demonstrates the law will seriously compromise press freedom in Venezuela .
At least one person was killed and several others wounded Sunday when police and demonstrators clashed in Indian-controlled Kashmir .
Police opened fire on the crowd of stone-throwing protesters in Baramullah town , about 55 kilometers outside Srinigar .
Demonstrators chanting pro-freedom slogans had taken to the streets to call for the release of several people who had been arrested during a recent strike .
Anti-India protests have grown in recent months .
Last week , separatists called for the United Nations to intervene in determining the fate of the disputed region .
And a pro-independence strike shut down large parts of Indian-controlled Kashmir on Friday .
Kashmir is divided between India and Pakistan , but claimed by both .
Two of the three wars the two countries have fought have been over the disputed territory .
About 70,000 people , mostly civilians , have died in Indian-administered Kashmir since a separatist insurgency began in 1989 .
U.S. President Barack Obama holds a working lunch Tuesday with sub-Saharan African leaders on the sidelines of the U.N. General Assembly .
U.S. ambassador to the U.N. Susan Rice said the meeting will focus on how the U.S. can work in partnership with African governments to strengthen Africa 's economic and social development .
She said the three main topics will be job creation , creating a better climate for trade and investment , and improving agriculture to feed more people .
President Obama has previously urged African leaders to fight corruption and to promote the rule of law in order to spark economic growth .
Mr. Obama has made one visit to sub-Saharan Africa since becoming president , to Ghana in July .
A close aide says Iran 's moderate former President Mohammad Khatami may soon withdraw from the June presidential election .
Mr. Khatami 's aide told several Western news agencies Monday that he expects an announcement soon .
The news comes after the ex-president spoke to his supporters at a meeting late Sunday .
News agencies quote Mr. Khatami as saying that another moderate candidate , Mir Hossein Mousavi , may face less resistance from some hardliners and so might be a better contender .
He indicated that he may consider withdrawing to avoid dividing the pro-reformist vote .
Mr. Khatami served as president of Iran from 1997 to 2005 .
Mr. Mousavi served as Iran 's prime minister throughout most of the 1980s , but his position was scrapped when Iran 's constitution was revised in 1989 .
British military personnel are due to leave Indonesia 's tsunami-devastated Aceh province Sunday after more than a month working on relief efforts .
British pilots and other personnel have been in Indonesia since the first week in January .
The British Embassy in Jakarta says a Royal Navy vessel will stay in Indonesian waters .
The United States has already started scaling back military relief efforts in Indonesia by pulling out an aircraft carrier that operated a major helicopter relief operation .
Australia has announced plans to withdraw relief forces , as well .
Indonesia was the nation hardest-hit by the December 26 tsunami .
Indonesian officials say the death toll in the country has risen to at least 1,17,000 , while the number of missing and presumed dead remained at nearly 1,15,000 .
Indian police Thursday are questioning a married couple in connection with Sunday 's train bombing that killed 68 people .
Security officials say they detained the husband and wife late in Bikaner in northern Rajasthan , an area bordering Pakistan .
Media reports say the man resembles the sketch of a suspect released earlier this week .
There are conflicting reports about the number of people who have been detained in the ongoing probe , with figures ranging from three to 12 .
Also Thursday , Indian authorities transferred the bodies of 12 Pakistanis killed in the attack to their relatives in Pakistan .
Pakistani soldiers carried the coffins across the border and passed them to grieving relatives .
The bombing took place on a train from New Delhi to the Pakistani city of Lahore .
Two small bombs aboard triggered a fire that engulfed the train about an hour after it left the Indian capital .
Kenya 's Finance Minister Amos Kimunya says violence following the country 's recent disputed election may have cost the Kenyan economy up to $ 1 billion .
Kimunya says tourism , agriculture , and other sectors were affected by the unrest , but he says the economy is resilient and will recover soon .
He also projected a strong seven percent growth rate for the country this year .
Kenya is East Africa 's largest economy .
The Bloomberg financial news service reports Kenya received more than one million tourists in the first nine months of 2007 and is the largest exporter of black tea in the world .
Iraq 's government has ordered its troops to Baghdad 's international airport to reopen the facility after the British company that protects it shut it down in a payment dispute .
Acting Transportation Minister Esmat Amer said Friday keeping the airport open is a matter of Iraqi sovereignty .
He said flights will resume Friday .
The British security firm Global Strategies Group says the Iraqi government is seven months behind in payments .
The company says it will continue to secure the complex , but flights will be grounded until the bills are paid .
Meanwhile , in Baghdad , insurgent attacks have left two Iraqis dead and at least six others injured .
In other developments , former American hostage Roy Hallums , who was rescued by American troops Wednesday , is on his way home to the United States .
Most Asian stock markets are closed Thursday , for the Christmas holidays .
Tokyo 's Nikkei index rose 82 points , nearly one percent , to finish at 8,599 .
Share prices closed lower in Shanghai and Taipei , but ended higher in Bangkok .
Markets are closed in Hong Kong , Jakarta , Manila , Mumbai , Seoul , Sydney and Wellington .
In currency trading , the dollar was selling at 90.41 yen , down 0.5 yen from Wednesday .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai says terrorists who are killing foreign soldiers in his country want the international community to fail in its efforts to rebuild war-torn Afghanistan .
Mr. Karzai told the U.N. General Assembly Wednesday that terrorists see a prosperous Afghanistan as their ultimate defeat .
In a clear reference to neighboring Pakistan , Mr. Karzai told world leaders that " terrorism does not emanate from within Afghanistan . "
He said there is a need to destroy terrorist sanctuaries beyond Afghanistan , and to dismantle all terror networks in the region .
Mr. Karzai 's remarks come just two weeks after Pakistan 's truce with pro-Taleban militants in the North Waziristan region .
Pakistani troops agreed to end their crackdown in the region , and the militants said they will stop harboring foreign terrorists and will stop crossing into Afghanistan to launch ambushes .
Norway has pulled out of the Nordic Combined team event at the Turin Olympics in Italy because nearly the entire team has become ill .
Norwegian spokesman Tom Dahl Froeshaug said Tuesday that only one member of the four-man team is healthy enough to compete .
He says an infection has swept through the team that won the world championship last year .
The Nordic Combined event includes ski jumping off the large hill , and the 4x5-kilometer cross-country ski race .
The Norwegians are hoping to be ready for the individual sprint competition next Tuesday .
The outgoing president of Ukraine , Leonid Kuchma , says there will not be a revolution in his country over the nation 's hotly contested presidential election .
On the eve of Sunday 's run-off vote , President Kuchma said in a televised address that authorities will not allow instability to erupt over the vote .
Opposition candidate Viktor Yushchenko has warned that his supporters will stage massive demonstrations if electoral fraud is discovered .
The United States has warned it will review its relations with Ukraine if the election fails to be free or fair .
Mr. Yushchenko , with just under 40 percent support , edged out Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych by a half of percentage point in the first round of voting on October 31 .
International observers said the October balloting fell short of democratic standards .
Supporters of Nigerian Vice President Atiku Abubakar have launched a new political party to oppose a possible re-election effort by President Olusegun Obasanjo .
They say the new party , the Advanced Congress of Democrats , will allow Mr. Abubakar to contest next year 's presidential elections and help rally opponents of the president .
The spokesman for the new party , Lai Mohammed , tells VOA that efforts to amend the constitution to allow Mr. Obasanjo 's re-election are " unconstitutional , immoral and illegal . "
Nigeria 's parliament is debating a constitutional amendment proposed by supporters of Mr. Obasanjo that would permit presidents three terms in office instead of two .
The president has not yet said whether he will run for a third term if the measure passes .
Mr. Abubakar announced his intention to run for president earlier this month .
The rebel Lord 's Resistance Army has killed at least eight people in a new series of attacks in southern Sudan .
Local officials say LRA fighters attacked villages near Yambio , the capital of Western Equatoria state , on Friday and Saturday .
They say all of those killed were civilians .
The LRA is originally from Uganda but has evolved into a roaming band of fighters causing terror across central Africa .
Last month , Human Rights Watch said the group had killed more than 250 people in the Central African Republic and the Democratic Republic of Congo over the previous year and a half .
It said nearly 700 others were kidnapped and forced to be either soldiers or sex slaves .
Ugandan forces have chased the rebels in neighboring countries but have failed to stop the attacks or catch LRA leader Joseph Kony .
Kony is wanted by the International Criminal Court for alleged crimes against humanity .
A Togolese general says the military has agreed to return the country to " constitutional order " to resolve the crisis over the installation of President Faure Gnassingbe .
General Seyi Memene said the military agreed to the move after talks Tuesday with West African diplomats .
He did not say weather elections will be held within 60 days as specified under Togo 's former constitution .
Lawmakers amended the constitution earlier this month after the death of longtime President Gnassingbe Eyadema , allowing his son to serve out his term until 2008 .
The regional grouping , known as the Economic Community of West African States ( ECOWAS ) , has threatened sanctions against the Togolese government if it does not hold fresh elections .
Iran 's leaders have sent their condolences to the grieving families of the victims of a mosque fire that killed 59 worshippers in Tehran Monday .
Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and President Mohammad Khatami issued separate statements Tuesday promising the best possible medical care for the more than 200 injured , and an investigation into the fire 's cause .
No official cause has been determined , but initial reports point to a kerosene heater that ignited either a curtain or a woman 's veil , setting the Arg mosque on fire .
The fire broke out during evening prayers in the women 's section of the mosque .
Witnesses said the flames spread quickly , and dozens of worshippers were killed or injured from a stampede triggered by panic .
Eight Chinese laborers who were held hostage by Iraqi militants for five days last week are on their way home .
The group flew out of Baghdad earlier Tuesday , accompanied by several Chinese diplomats .
After a brief stop in Amman , Jordan , they will fly on to Beijing .
The eight men were driving to Jordan when they were kidnapped last Tuesday .
The kidnappers released a video threatening to kill the Chinese workers if Beijing did not explain why they were in Iraq .
The laborers were turned over to a Chinese embassy official at a mosque in Ramdi on Sunday .
The insurgents said they released the men after Beijing promised to discourage its citizens from traveling to Iraq .
The Nepalese military says it has confiscated explosives , bombs , communication devices and other weapons belonging to Maoist rebels that could have been used in several attacks .
A Royal Nepalese Army spokesman , Brigadier-General Deepak Gurung , told journalists in Kathmandu Tuesday the weapons were recovered from various Maoist hideouts in and around the nation 's capital .
The army confiscated the weapons as Maoist rebels escalated their attacks ahead of a January 13 deadline set by Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba for the Maoists to resume peace talks .
Maoist rebels have been fighting since 1996 to replace Nepal 's constitutional monarchy with a communist state .
So far , the conflict has claimed more than 10,000 lives .
The U.N. refugee agency says the death toll has risen to 91 from two boats that capsized off the coast of Yemen while crossing from the Horn of Africa .
The U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees says another 114 people are still missing from the two vessels .
They were illegally carrying a total of 256 Somalis and Ethiopians across the Gulf of Aden a few days ago .
It says a total of 51 people survived the voyages , noting that rescue operations continue along the Yemeni coast .
The U.N. agency says a new wave of human smuggling vessels has been trying to cross the Gulf of Aden after a two-week lull stemming from bad weather .
Thousands of Somalis and Ethiopians try to reach Yemen each year to escape poverty in their home countries .
A German man , allegedly held in a U.S. secret prison in Afghanistan , says he has identified a German police official who visited him there .
Khalid al-Masri , a German citizen of Lebanese descent , has said he was seized by CIA agents in Macedonia in 2003 and taken to Afghanistan , where he was interrogated as a terrorism suspect .
Masri has filed suit against the CIA for wrongful imprisonment , and German prosecutors are probing whether German officials had knowledge of his arrest .
Prosecutors said Tuesday that Masri was " 90 percent " certain that a man in a police line-up was the official who visited him in prison .
However , they said they were concerned that Masri was not absolutely certain .
German officials have denied any knowledge of the case until Masri was released in Albania .
Authorities in military-ruled Burma have called on people to report terrorists , following two explosions and the discovery of a mine in Bago division over the last five days .
The official New Light of Myanmar newspaper on Saturday blamed the bombings on anti-government organizations and armed terrorist groups .
The paper said a bomb blast occurred Friday night on a wooden bridge near the village of Kyauk-ein-su .
That blast was followed about 10 minutes later by an explosion near an empty house in the village of Sar-dan .
No casualties were reported in either explosion .
The report also said an improvised mine had been found last Sunday in Kanyutkwin , Phyu township after authorities received a tip .
The NATO-led mission in Afghanistan has urged civilians to stay away from military patrol vehicles so that they are not mistaken for insurgents .
A spokesman , Bernd Allert , for NATO 's International Security Assistance Force , ISAF , told reporters Wednesday civilian drivers should behave so they can not be mistaken for a threat .
The spokesman warned that ISAF forces are authorized to fire warning shots if unidentified vehicles get too close .
The warning is part of a new public awareness campaign aimed at preventing civilian casualties - an issue that has plagued the alliance over the past year .
It will also include new signs on military vehicles , billboards and television advertisements .
After several incidents in which civilians were killed during anti-insurgent operations last year , Afghan President Hamid Karzai demanded NATO and the U.S.-led coalition review its military strategy .
Former Vice President Al Gore is joining a venture capital company in the hope of boosting investments in clean energy .
Gore won the Nobel Prize a few weeks ago for his role in sounding the alarm about the dangers of global warming from the carbon put into the atmosphere by burning oil and coal .
The company - Kleiner , Perkins , Caufield and Byers - was an early investor in small computer-related start-up companies that later blossomed into major companies .
Gore adds his political skills and clout to the company 's financial resources and expertise .
He plans to donate his salary to an environmental group .
Pakistani officials say they have arrested a foreigner suspected of links with the al-Qaida terrorist network .
Officials say the suspect was arrested Monday night in a village , Charsadda , northeast of Peshawar , about 50 kilometers from the Afghan border .
Pakistani security forces have rounded up dozens of suspected al-Qaida members following the arrest of the network 's reputed third-in-command , Abu Farraj al-Libbi , earlier this month .
The U.S. State Department says Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi declined a U.S. request to meet with the highest ranking U.S. official to visit Libya in decades .
A State Department spokesman says Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte instead met with lower-level officials during his visit to Tripoli .
He says talks focused on Libya completing compensation payments to the families of the victims of the 1988 bombing of Pan Am flight 103 over Lockerbie , Scotland .
They also discussed Libya 's prosecution of five Bulgarian nurses and a Palestinian doctor sentenced to death for allegedly infecting 400 children with HIV .
Negroponte and the Libyan officials also discussed the crisis in Darfur .
The U.S. restored full diplomatic ties with Libya last year after the government of Mr. Gadhafi renounced terrorism .
The death toll in Kenya from a lethal batch of illegal alcohol has risen to at least 41 .
Authorities in the Machakos district south of Nairobi say another 80 people are being treated , with nine of them in critical condition in a Nairobi hospital .
Several people have gone blind .
The victims drank the homemade brew at a bar in Makutano , a village some 50 kilometers south of Nairobi .
Police are looking for a woman they believe sold the illegal brew .
Authorities say the drink probably contained methanol to make it more potent .
Cheap , illegal alcoholic drinks , known as chang'aa , are common in Kenya .
In 2000 , more than 100 people died after consuming an illegal homemade drink in Nairobi .
Russian President Vladimir Putin has dismissed the president of the southern republic of Chechnya , Alu Alkhanov , and named the region 's prime minister as acting president .
Mr. Putin announced the move Thursday during a meeting with Alkhanov .
The Russian leader appointed Chechnya 's Prime Minister Ramzan Kadyrov to replace Alkhanov .
Kadyrov is the son of the late Chechen president Akhmad Kadyrov , who was assassinated in 2004 .
President Putin appointed Alkhanov as deputy justice minister of the Russian federation .
Kadyrov has denied accusations that militias he controls are behind the abductions and abuse of Chechen separatists and civilians believed to have links with them .
Major fighting in Chechnya ended in 2001 , but violence remains common in the mostly Muslim region .
The head of Iran 's powerful Guardian Council says his country will withstand any international sanctions over its nuclear program .
Ayatollah Ahmad Jannati told state media Friday that Iran is not afraid of such sanctions .
He expressed confidence that Iran will achieve what he called " its rights . "
Britain , France and Germany have been pressing Iran to abandon its nuclear enrichment activities .
The United States says the Iranian program is intended to develop a nuclear weapon , a charge Tehran denies .
Last month , the Bush administration and the Europeans backed an International Atomic Energy Agency resolution that says Iran could be referred to the United Nations Security Council if it fails to cooperate fully with IAEA inspectors .
Such a referral could open the way for international sanctions against Tehran .
Nepal 's Defense Ministry says at least 29 people - including Maoist rebels , soldiers and police - have been killed in a fierce gunfight in the western part of the country .
An army statement says the clash occurred late Tuesday in the Palpa area , some 250 kilometers west of the capital , Kathmandu .
It says 18 rebels , 10 soldiers and a policeman were killed in the fighting .
No other details were immediately available .
Rebel attacks have increased since the Maoists ended a unilateral cease-fire in early January .
They have been fighting since 1996 to overthrow Nepal 's constitutional monarchy and replace it with a communist state .
About 13,000 people have been killed in the war that shattered Nepal 's economy .
Media reports say nine people were killed and 17 injured when an avalanche crashed down a mountain and struck a bus in eastern Turkey .
The bus was traveling Saturday between the cities of Bitlis and Diyarbakir .
Rescuers are searching the wreck for others who may have been injured .
Iraqi officials say the Iranian military has fired artillery at several villages in northern Iraq where Iran believes Kurdish rebels are based .
Iraqi Kurdish officials say Iranian forces shelled the villages in Iraq 's Sulaimaniyah province near the Iranian border Sunday and Saturday .
No casualties were reported , but the government of northern Iraq 's Kurdish region says Iranian shelling has caused serious concern among residents .
It strongly condemned the bombardment and demanded that it stop immediately .
Iran has not confirmed the artillery strikes .
The Iranian military has frequently shelled areas of northern Iraq it suspects of harboring members of the Kurdish separatist group PEJAK , the Party of Free Life of Kurdistan .
Tehran accuses the group of launching attacks inside Iran from bases in Iraq .
Iraq 's central government in Baghdad has criticized the Iranian artillery strikes and warned they could harm relations between the two neighbors .
Zimbabwe 's economy is growing at a brisk pace despite continuing political uncertainty .
Following a decade of contraction , Zimbabwe 's economy recorded real growth of 5.9 % in 2010 .
But the government of Zimbabwe still faces a number of difficult economic problems , including a large external debt burden and insufficient formal employment .
Zimbabwe 's 1998 - 2002 involvement in the war in the Democratic Republic of the Congo drained hundreds of millions of dollars from the economy .
The government 's land reform program , characterized by chaos and violence , has badly damaged the commercial farming sector , the traditional source of exports and foreign exchange and the provider of 4,00,000 jobs , turning Zimbabwe into a net importer of food products .
The EU and the US provide food aid on humanitarian grounds , though on a smaller scale than before .
Until early 2009 , the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe routinely printed money to fund the budget deficit , causing hyperinflation .
The power-sharing government formed in February 2009 has led to some economic improvements , including the cessation of hyperinflation by eliminating the use of the Zimbabwe dollar and removing price controls .
The economy is registering its first growth in a decade , but will be reliant on further political improvement for greater growth .
All of the following US Pacific island territories except Midway Atoll constitute the Pacific Remote Islands National Wildlife Refuge ( NWR ) Complex and as such are managed by the Fish and Wildlife Service of the US Department of the Interior .
Midway Atoll NWR has been included in a Refuge Complex with the Hawaiian Islands NWR and also designated as part of Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument .
These remote refuges are the most widespread collection of marine- and terrestrial-life protected areas on the planet under a single country 's jurisdiction .
They sustain many endemic species including corals , fish , shellfish , marine mammals , seabirds , water birds , land birds , insects , and vegetation not found elsewhere .
Panama 's dollar-based economy rests primarily on a well-developed services sector that accounts for three-quarters of GDP .
Services include operating the Panama Canal , logistics , banking , the Colon Free Zone , insurance , container ports , flagship registry , and tourism .
Economic growth will be bolstered by the Panama Canal expansion project that began in 2007 and is scheduled to be completed by 2014 at a cost of $ 5.3 billion - about 25 % of current GDP .
The expansion project will more than double the Canal 's capacity , enabling it to accommodate ships that are too large to traverse the existing canal .
The United States and China are the top users of the Canal .
Panama also plans to construct a metro system in Panama City , valued at $ 1.2 billion and scheduled to be completed by 2014 .
Panama 's booming transportation and logistics services sectors , along with aggressive infrastructure development projects , will likely lead the economy to continued growth in 2011 .
Strong economic performance has not translated into broadly shared prosperity , as Panama has the second worst income distribution in Latin America .
About 30 % of the population lives in poverty ; however , from 2006 to 2010 poverty was reduced by 10 percentage points , while unemployment dropped from 12 % to 6 % of the labor force .
Panama and the United States signed a Trade Promotion Agreement in June 2007 , which , when implemented , will help promote the country 's economic growth .
Seeking removal from the Organization of Economic Development 's gray-list of tax havens , Panama has also recently signed various double taxation treaties with other nations .
Speculation over the existence of a " southern land " was not confirmed until the early 1820s when British and American commercial operators and British and Russian national expeditions began exploring the Antarctic Peninsula region and other areas south of the Antarctic Circle .
Not until 1840 was it established that Antarctica was indeed a continent and not just a group of islands or an area of ocean .
Several exploration " firsts " were achieved in the early 20th century , but generally the area saw little human activity .
Following World War II , however , there was an upsurge in scientific research on the continent .
A number of countries have set up a range of year-round and seasonal stations , camps , and refuges to support scientific research in Antarctica .
Seven have made territorial claims , but not all countries recognize these claims .
In order to form a legal framework for the activities of nations on the continent , an Antarctic Treaty was negotiated that neither denies nor gives recognition to existing territorial claims ; signed in 1959 , it entered into force in 1961 .
Tourism is the mainstay of the small open Aruban economy , together with offshore banking .
Oil refining and storage ended in 2009 .
The rapid growth of the tourism sector over the last decade has resulted in a substantial expansion of other activities .
Over 1.5 million tourists per year visit Aruba with 75 % of those from the US .
Construction continues to boom with hotel capacity five times the 1985 level .
Tourist arrivals rebounded strongly following a dip after the 11 September 2001 attacks .
The government has made cutting the budget and trade deficits a high priority .
AN ASS , carrying a load of wood , passed through a pond .
As he was crossing through the water he lost his footing , stumbled and fell , and not being able to rise on account of his load , groaned heavily .
Some Frogs frequenting the pool heard his lamentation , and said , " What would you do if you had to live here always as we do , when you make such a fuss about a mere fall into the water ? "
Men often bear little grievances with less courage than they do large misfortunes .
Australia 's cricket team has scored 351-7 declared in its second innings , leaving India a massive target of nearly 500 runs after the third day of their first test in Melbourne .
Australian batsmen Michael Clarke and Phil Jaques led the home side with Clarke scoring 73 runs and Jaques adding another 51 .
Brad Hogg scored 34 runs and Brett Lee added another 12 for Australia .
Indian bowler Harbhajan Singh took three for 101 while Anil Kumble was two for 102 .
India was 6 without loss after surviving eight overs before stumps .
The Indians have their work cut out for them - they need 493 runs in 10 wickets .
The highest successful run-chase at Melbourne was England 's 332 runs against Australia in the 1928 - 1929 Ashes series .
Only three teams have ever achieved what India must to win the match .
Poland 's defense minister has announced plans to cut his country 's forces in Iraq by almost one third next year .
Minister Jerzy Szmajdzinski said the number of Polish troops remaining in Iraq in mid-February will stand at 1,700 .
He said another 700 will remain in Poland on standby in case of emergency .
The withdrawal is to follow Iraq 's parliamentary elections .
Poland has about 2,400 soldiers in Iraq .
It is the third largest contributor of troops to the international stabilization forces in that country , after the United States and Britain .
Poland commands a 6,500-strong international force south of Baghdad .
World and European champion Germany remains atop the latest International Football Federation ( FIFA ) women 's soccer rankings , with the Olympic champion U.S. team second .
Norway is third followed by Brazil , France , and Sweden .
North Korea is seventh followed by Denmark , which rose one place to eighth .
China dropped one place to ninth in the world and Italy remained in 10th place .
Outside the top 10 , the big winner was Russia which came through three Women 's World Cup qualifiers without losing a match and is 13th in the world .
There are now 124 teams in the FIFA Women 's World Rankings .
The rankings are published four times a year and the next ranking will be issued December 16 , 2005 .
A top Palestinian official has announced a series of new measures to increase public safety and end factional strife in the Gaza Strip .
Rashid Abu Shbak , a senior security official said Saturday the measures include the disbanding of the Department of Protection and Security , a group Gazans have nicknamed " death squad . "
The 70-member squad has faced accusations of corruption and intimidating the public .
Mr. Shbak also announced that the dominant Fatah faction will work to merge its several militant groups in order to end intra-Palestinian violence and factional infighting .
Palestinian territories have seen an upsurge in factional strife in the months preceding the death of longtime Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat , who died on November 11 .
Separately , a lecturer at Gaza City 's al-Azhar university was killed when a bomb exploded at his university office .
Bolivians demanding the nationalization of the country 's energy industry have taken over several oil fields belonging to a Spanish oil company .
Officials say protesters occupied the fields near the eastern city of Santa Cruz Wednesday .
The latest protest action comes one day before legislators are scheduled to vote on whether to accept President Carlos Mesa 's resignation .
President Mesa submitted his resignation Monday , saying he could no longer lead the poor Andean nation in the face of continuing large demonstrations over his government 's policies .
Mr. Mesa tried to resign earlier this year , but lawmakers rejected his offer .
Thursday 's special legislative session is scheduled to take place in the city of Sucre , south of the capital La Paz .
The Senate president would be next in line to replace Mr. Mesa .
France 's Richard Gasquet will meet Max Mirnyi of Belarus in the final of the Nottingham Open tennis tournament Saturday after both scored semifinal wins in England .
The fourth-seeded Gasquet beat fifth seed Taylor Dent of the United States in straight sets , 06-Apr , 06-Feb .
Mirnyi , seeded eighth , also won in straight sets , but he had a more difficult time .
He beat seventh-seeded Olivier Rochus of Belgium , 06-Apr , 07-May .
The grass court tournament is one of several warm-up events for the third major tournament of the year , Wimbledon , which starts Monday in London .
Gasquet will be seeded 27th at the All England Club , while Mirnyi is unseeded .
World oil prices fell $ 2 a barrel on Friday , closing below $ 50 dollars a barrel for the first time since mid-February .
Crude oil for June delivery was selling at $ 49.5 a barrel at the close of New York trading .
The decline follows reports that crude oil supplies are growing and economic growth is slowing in the key U.S. market .
Prices spiked earlier when investors thought supplies could not keep up with robust demand .
Pope Benedict XVI is expected to meet with diplomats from Muslim countries and leaders of Italy 's Islamic community Monday to explain comments about Islam that he says were misunderstood .
The head of the Pontifical Council for Interreligious Dialogue , Cardinal Paul Poupard , will also attend the meeting at Castel Gandolfo , the Pope 's summer residence outside Rome .
Vatican officials hope the meeting will reopen dialogue between the Roman Catholic Church and the Islamic world .
Earlier this month , Pope Benedict quoted a 14th-century Byzantine emperor who had criticized some of the teachings of the prophet Muhammad .
The pope has said those are not his own views .
On Sunday , the pope praised an Italian nun killed by gunmen last week in Somalia .
It has been theorized that Muslim anger over the pope 's remarks was to blame for the killing .
Thousands of Muslims worldwide have demonstrated to protest the pope 's remarks .
The U.S military says four American soldiers have been killed in a roadside bomb blast north of Baghdad .
A statement says the incident occurred Thursday in Samarra , some 95 kilometers north of the Iraqi capital .
In Baghdad Wednesday , three car bombs exploded in close succession , killing at least 43 people .
Meanwhile , Iraqi political leaders are continuing negotiations on a draft constitution .
Mahmud Othman , a Kurdish member of the committee drafting the document , tells the French News agency that Wednesday 's deadly bombings have increased global pressure on politicians to wrap up the constitution by the new deadline of August 22 .
He said " it has now become a question of who is stronger - the politicians or the insurgents . "
Jamie Foxx , star of the movie Ray , has won the best actor award and Hilary Swank takes best actress for her role in Million Dollar Baby at the 11th annual Screen Actors Guild Awards .
Cate Blanchett won the supporting-actress honor for her portrayal of Katherine Hepburn in The Aviator while Morgan Freeman captured the supporting-actor prize for his work on Million Dollar Baby .
Other winners at Saturday 's ceremony in Los Angeles include Alias star Jennifer Garner , Tony Shaloub from the television comedy Monk , and the late Jerry Orbach who starred in the drama series Law and Order .
The cast award for best movie ensemble went to the quirky , road-trip comedy Sideways .
The Screen Actors Guild winners are among front-runners for the prestigious Oscar Awards to be presented later this month .
South Korea 's foreign minister says he thinks the six-party talks on North Korea 's nuclear ambitions may resume in February .
Ban Ki-moon was speaking to reporters at the World Economic Forum in Davos , Switzerland Friday .
Earlier , Japan said it will hold bilateral talks with North Korea in China next week .
Japanese officials said the working-level talks will focus on Pyongyang 's past abduction of Japanese nationals , normalization of diplomatic ties and North Korea 's nuclear and missile programs .
The latest round of six-party talks on Pyongyang 's nuclear programs has been stalled since November .
North Korea wants the United States to lift economic sanctions against Pyongyang before returning to the table .
Washington has rejected the demand .
Army officials in the Democratic Republic of Congo say an air raid has killed more than 40 Rwandan Hutu rebels .
The Thursday strike on the camp where leaders of the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda were meeting also wounded several other rebels .
The attack came after the Congolese government gave Rwandan soldiers the go ahead to join forces with its own troops in the east of the country to attack ethnic Hutu militia .
The militia are seen as a root cause of instability in the region .
Some of their leaders are accused of being behind the 1994 genocide in Rwanda .
Meanwhile , a coalition of human rights groups says protecting civilians in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo should be a top priority as Congolese and Rwandan government forces pursue their joint operation .
Chinese authorities have suspended poultry exports from the western province of Xinjiang to Hong Kong because of an outbreak of bird flu .
China notified Hong Kong Wednesday that it has culled more than 13,000 geese at a farm in Xinjiang .
A government statement says hundreds of dead geese were found on the farm and that tests showed they had died from the H5N1 avian flu strain , which can be lethal to humans .
It said officials in Xinjiang have carried out vaccinations on birds at all nearby poultry farms .
Hong Kong says it has not imported any live birds or poultry meat from Xinjiang and the suspension of exports is merely a precaution .
The U.S. Undersecretary for Public Diplomacy is set to lead a delegation of business executives to Central America next week .
A statement issued Wednesday by the State Department says Karen Hughes will be accompanied by chief executives of major U.S companies such as PepsiCo and JPMorgan Private Bank .
The delegation will visit Guatemala , Honduras and El Salvador , where a series of natural disasters damaged economies in the region .
The trip aims to encourage private sector assistance for reconstruction efforts in the area .
President Bush has asked the business leaders to see U.S. assistance efforts already underway .
The trip will last December 4 to December 6 .
NATO has announced it will deploy 2,000 more troops to Afghanistan ahead of parliamentary elections there in September .
A spokeswoman for the NATO-led peacekeeping force in Afghanistan says the troops are to be deployed in July , about six weeks before the scheduled polling .
The NATO-led International Security Assistance Force now has more than 8,000 troops in Afghanistan .
Wednesday 's announcement came as Afghan President Hamid Karzai said he believes attacks will increase and terrorism will rise in the run-up to the election .
The September vote will be the first parliamentary elections since the Taleban regime was toppled in 2001 .
Italian defender Marco Materazzi has appeared before a disciplinary committee in Zurich at the headquarters of football 's world governing body , FIFA .
FIFA wants to find out what he did to provoke French midfielder Zinedine Zidane to head-butt him during Italy 's World Cup title victory over France last Sunday in Berlin .
A FIFA spokesman refused to provide any details of the meeting .
Materazzi is being investigated based on statements by Zidane , who was sent off for ramming his head into the defender 's chest during extra time in the match .
Zidane said on French television Wednesday night that Materazzi insulted his mother and sister .
Materazzi has admitted insulting Zidane , but denied verbally attacking Zidane 's mother .
Zidane is scheduled to attend a FIFA hearing next Thursday to explain his actions .
A decision is expected later that day .
FIFA has declined to comment on possible punishments for either individuals or teams .
Crude oil prices rose Wednesday after a government report showed U.S. supplies of crude oil , gasoline , and other oil products declined last week .
The Energy Department report said crude oil inventories dropped more than one million barrels , a decline of about one-third of a percent .
Stocks of gasoline declined around 1.5 percent , which is more than experts had predicted .
The price of a barrel of crude oil for future delivery rose 69 cents to $ 77 a barrel in New York .
London prices also rose .
Diplomats at the United Nations Nuclear Agency say Iran has started small-scale uranium enrichment , a process that produces fuel that can be used in nuclear weapons and reactors .
The International Atomic Energy Agency officials , speaking on condition of anonymity , say uranium gas has been fed into some machines .
Iran had warned it would resume large-scale enrichment activities after the IAEA referred it to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions over its nuclear program .
Iran also further postponed talks set for this week with Russia about a proposal to process uranium on Russian soil for use in Iran 's nuclear plants .
Russia has been pushing for the plan as a way to ease international concerns that Iran might be aiming to produce weapons-grade uranium .
Iran says its nuclear program is only intended to generate electricity .
The Palestinian militant group Hamas says Israeli police briefly detained a minister in the new Hamas-led Palestinian government Thursday .
Officials say Khaled Abu Arafa and his bodyguard were arrested while traveling to the Jerusalem suburb of Izzariya to take control of a political office that had been operated by the previous Fatah administration .
The two were released several hours later .
Israel considers Hamas a terrorist organization and describes Jerusalem as its eternal capital .
As such , Israeli officials have refused to let the militant group conduct any political activity in the city .
It was not immediately clear whether Israel will permit the office to operate while Hamas controls the Palestinian government .
A U.S. scientist says he is withdrawing from a stem cell research project led by a team of South Korean scientists because of concerns over a possible breach of ethics .
Gerald Schatten of the University of Pittsburgh , in the northern U.S. state of Pennsylvania , has been working for more than a year with the team , which is led by Hwang Woo-Suk .
Mr. Hwang announced last year that his team was the first to clone human embryos and extract embryonic stem cells from them .
Mr. Schatten says he is withdrawing over allegations the South Korean scientists used eggs donated by a female member of the team .
Widely held ethics principles preclude scientists from accepting donations from underlings in order to avoid any suggestions of coercion .
Questions have also been raised as to whether the woman was paid for the eggs .
Mr. Hwang has denied allegations of ethical impropriety .
The World Health Organization says an outbreak of deadly Marburg fever in Angola has claimed 127 lives , the highest number of fatalities from the rare virus .
However , a spokeswoman for the U.N. agency , Fadela Chaib , said Friday the outbreak can be controlled if people suspected of infection are put in isolation and all their contacts are identified .
The WHO also announced that hospital staff in Italy have put nine patients in isolation , suspected of having had contact with a sufferer in Angola .
So far , 132 cases of Marburg have been reported , mainly in Angola 's northwestern Uige province .
Two deaths occurred in the capital , Luanda .
Marburg virus is a severe form of hemorrhagic fever similar to Ebola - and is spread through contact with bodily fluids .
Symptoms include headaches , nausea , vomiting and bloody discharges .
Former Malaysian prime minister Mahathir Mohamad says Australia should be kept out of a new East Asian regional grouping , saying Australians are Europeans , not Asians .
Asked by reporters Monday if Australia has anything to offer to Asia , Mr. Mahathir replied , " Nothing . "
Leaders of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations who met in Laos last week approved Mr. Mahathir 's plan to launch an East Asian regional summit next year .
The summit would probably include China , Japan , South Korea , New Zealand and Australia , in addition to ASEAN members .
However , Mr. Mahathir has objected to Australia 's participation because Canberra has refused to sign a non-aggression treaty with ASEAN .
Australia says such a pact could prevent criticism of the human rights records of countries such as Burma .
Iran is facing calls to hand over sensitive nuclear documents for analysis , one day after it escaped immediate referral to the United Nations Security Council for its nuclear activities .
At a meeting Friday in Vienna of the International Atomic Energy Agency 's 35-member board , Britain called for Iran to allow the five main nuclear powers to examine what some experts say are designs for making the explosive core of a nuclear warhead .
Iran insists it did not ask for the designs but was given them by Pakistan 's nuclear black market network run by disgraced scientist Abdul Qadeer Khan .
The call for examination comes as a report circulating in Vienna says Iran 's top nuclear officials met late last month to discuss resuming their enrichment program .
In August , Iran restarted uranium conversion - a precursor to enrichment .
That move prompted Europe to break off nuclear talks with Tehran .
The United States is considering boosting the number of troops it has in Iraq ahead of elections there set for Jan. 27 .
The deputy commander of the U.S. Central Command , Lt.-Gen. Lance Smith , told Friday , the number of additional troops would depend on the security situation following the assault on Fallujah , but would " probably be an additional brigade 's worth of forces " -- up to several thousand soldiers .
Gen. Smith says the Pentagon is primarily considering an extension of the tours of duty of soldiers already in Iraq , because experienced troops are needed to cope with an expected increase in violence .
The United States now has about 1,38,000 troops in Iraq .
An advance team of Chinese engineers and medical officers arrived in Sudan 's war-torn Darfur region Saturday .
A United Nations spokesman says the 135 personnel are the first of a 315-member army engineering unit that will support that joint African Union-U.N. peacekeeping mission to Darfur .
The rest of the Chinese force is due to arrive in December .
The Chinese engineering team will dig wells and build roads and bridges in preparation for the deployment of the 26,000-member peacekeeping force scheduled to begin arriving in January .
That force will replace 7,000 beleaguered African Union peacekeepers .
The Sudanese government has welcomed the Chinese mission to Darfur .
But critics object to Beijing 's involvement because they say Chinese-made weapons that have found their way to the troubled region have contributed to genocide and robbery .
China is the biggest buyer of Sudan 's oil .
An earthquake in southeastern Turkey has injured at least seven people and triggered an avalanche .
Istanbul 's Kandili observatory says a 5.7 magnitude earthquake struck early Saturday in rural Bingol province .
It was centered in the town of Karliova .
Turkey 's Anatolianews agency says the quake apparently triggered an avalanche in neighboring Erzurum province , and is blocking a highway leading to the village of Cat .
At least 20 homes in the area have been damaged .
Provincial officials say recent heavy snowfall is hampering efforts to reach small villages .
Earthquakes are common in Turkey .
In 2003 , a magnitude 6.4 quake struck the same region , killing 177 people .
Coalition forces in Iraq have detained two suspected weapons smugglers the U.S. military says may have ties to the Iranian Revolutionary Guards Qods force .
The military issued a statement saying the suspects and weapons were seized during a raid on a rural farm compound in eastern Iraq .
The military statement says the suspects may be linked to a network that has been smuggling Explosively Formed Projectiles ( EFPs ) and other weapons , personnel and money from Iran into Iraq .
Earlier Sunday Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki urged parliament to cancel or shorten its August summer break to pass laws he considers crucial to Iraq 's stability .
Parliament was scheduled to adjourn for all of August , but American officials have been pressing Mr. Maliki and parliament to pass laws aimed at curbing sectarian violence and healing divisions between majority Shi'ite Arabs , minority Sunni Arabs and Kurds .
Iraqi police say a car bomb in northern Baghdad has killed 12 people .
At least 22 others were wounded in Sunday 's attack , which took place near a passport office in the capital 's northern Adhamiya district .
In other violence in Iraq 's capital , nine people , including six civilians , were wounded when a roadside bomb exploded near a police patrol .
The bombings came hours before Iraq 's parliament is scheduled to hold a special session to try to resolve a dispute about power-sharing proposals for the northern region of Kirkuk .
A top North Korean official says his country has a stockpile of nuclear weapons and is making more .
Vice Foreign Minister Kim Gye Gwan told U.S.-based ABC News Wednesday that North Korea has enough nuclear bombs to defend against a U.S. attack .
But he added Pyongyang has no intention of attacking the United States .
When asked if North Korea has a missile capable of hitting the United States , Mr. Kim would not answer , saying one can not speculate about that because the nuclear program is not aimed at the United States .
South Korean president Roh Moo-hyun is on his way to Washington for talks Friday with President Bush .
The two men are expected to discuss recent signs North Korea may be willing to return to six-nation talks on ending its nuclear weapons program .
The U.S. military says an American soldier was killed in Iraq 's restive al-Anbar province , as U.S. and Iraqi forces continued their offensive to hunt down insurgents in western Iraq .
The military says the soldier was killed late Friday during security operations in Anbar .
No other details were given .
U.S. Marines swept through the Iraqi town of Haditha in Anbar province early Saturday .
A Reuters report says soldiers destroyed a cache of weapons and briefly exchanged fire with guerrillas .
Insurgents also continued assaults on Iraq 's strategic infrastructure , blowing up a section of an oil pipeline in the oil-rich northern region of Kirkuk late Friday .
Russian lawmakers have slightly modified a bill that critics say would undermine operations of non-governmental organizations in the country .
The State Duma overwhelmingly approved on second reading the measure that would expand oversight of non-governmental groups and ban their acceptance of foreign funds for political activities .
The lawmakers approved a set of amendments suggested by Russian President Vladimir Putin , including doing away with a clause that would require foreign NGOs to register as Russian entities .
The United States repeatedly has expressed concern over the bill .
A State Department Spokesman Sean McCormack said the changes met some of these concerns .
But he said U.S. officials will withhold final judgment until they analyze the bill in depth .
One more vote in the Duma is needed for final approval .
Human rights groups have condemned the measure as a reflection of the Kremlin 's crackdown on civil society institutions .
Police in 12 European countries and the United States have searched 150 homes in a coordinated crackdown on Internet child pornography .
The European Union 's police agency , Europol , announced the action Wednesday , saying arrests have been made , but did not report how many .
Europol officials said Dutch police initiated the operation , code named " Baleno , " by supplying information to 76 countries around the world .
The operation started last year , when investigators discovered a sophisticated network distributing child pornography .
The network used technology to hide its members ' identities .
Europol coordinated the operation in Europe , while the FBI handled the probe in the United States .
A memorial has been unveiled in Washington to honor journalists from around the world who have died or were killed while covering the news .
The memorial is part of a new museum dedicated to journalism called the " Newseum . "
VOA 's Chris Simkins reports .
Authorities in Mauritania say suspects in the recent killing of four French tourists are members of an extremist group linked to al-Qaida .
Justice officials say the three primary suspects were previously arrested on terror-related charges , but all were released .
Prosecutors said they were members of a north African branch of the al-Qaida terror network .
Security officials say the French tourists were picnicking on the side of the highway outside of Aleg when a group of gunmen pulled up and demanded money .
The family refused and the gunmen opened fire .
One man survived the attack , but lost his two children , his brother and a family friend .
Authorities say the suspects may have fled to neighboring Senegal .
French President Nicolas Sarkozy offered his condolences and said he is in touch with his Mauritanian counterpart , Sidi Ould Cheikh Abdallahi .
Afghan authorities say they have detained a police chief in connection with last year 's killing of five aid workers from the Doctors Without Borders group .
An Afghan interior ministry spokesman said the police chief of Qadis district of Badghis province is a suspect and has been detained for questioning .
Three foreign and two Afghan aid workers were killed when their vehicle was hit by grenades in an apparently targeted attack in Badghis June 2 last year .
A month later , the Nobel Prize-winning medical relief agency pulled out of Afghanistan after 24 years , citing poor security and the government 's failure to launch a " credible " investigation into the killings .
Third-seeded Dinara Safina of Russia has easily defeated Iveta Benesova of the Czech Republic , 6-0 , 06-Jan , to advance to the third round of the women 's Gold Coast hardcourt tennis championships in Australia .
In other matches Tuesday , fourth-seeded Flavia Pennetta of Italy beat China 's Li Na , 06-Feb , 06-Feb .
Number-eight Anabel Medina Garrigues of Spain defeated Aiko Nakamura of Japan , 06-Apr , 06-Apr , while teenager Lucie Safarova of the Czech Republic scored a three-set win over Slovakia 's Jarmila Gajdosova ( 04-Jun , 07-May , 06-Apr ) .
Meanwhile in doubles , comeback player Martina Hingis of Switzerland teamed up with Tatiana Golovin of France to beat Athens Olympic doubles gold medalists Li Ting and Sun Tiantian of China , 06-Jan , 06-Apr .
The 25-year-old Hingis is making a return to the circuit after retiring three years ago due to a series of chronic foot injuries .
Bolivian President Evo Morales ended his five-day hunger strike Tuesday , after Congress passed a new electoral law making it possible for him to seek re-election in December .
The new law approved early Tuesday calls for general elections to be held on December 6 and gives more seats in Congress to minority indigenous groups .
Mr. Morales is the country 's first indigenous president .
President Morales started the hunger strike Thursday after accusing the opposition-controlled Senate of holding up passage of the measure .
Bolivians recently approved a new constitution that allows President Morales to seek a second , five-year term in December elections .
German military authorities have suspended two soldiers in connection with a series of disturbing photos showing servicemen posing with human skulls in Afghanistan .
Defense Minister Josef Jung announced the suspensions Friday in Berlin .
The scandal broke Wednesday when the newspaper Bild printed several pictures reportedly taken in 2003 , including one of a German soldier posing with a skull in a sexual manner .
RTL television on Thursday broadcast photographs of one soldier kissing a skull while another soldier displays a skull on the hood of a military vehicle .
The photos aired by RTL were reportedly taken a year later .
The photos have scandalized much of Germany .
Chancellor Angela Merkel calls the pictures disgusting and unforgivable .
The defense minister says the army has identified at least six of the soldiers involved in the photos , and has promised to punish them .
Zimbabwe 's main opposition party has cut ties with the South African government following its endorsement of parliamentary elections won by President Robert Mugabe 's ruling party .
Movement for Democratic Change ( MDC ) spokesman Paul Nyathi says there is no point in engaging with the South African government anymore .
Mr. Nyathi criticized the South African government for declaring what the opposition says were deeply-flawed March elections as free and fair .
He said South Africa was there , but did not bother to observe the elections properly .
South Africa has led mediation efforts on Zimbabwe 's political crisis , and has been slammed repeatedly by the opposition for its approach of so-called " quiet diplomacy " towards the Mugabe government .
The MDC has said the poll was rigged and it plans to contest the outcome of 13 seats in court .
China and Russia are discussing plans to set up a hotline so Chinese officials can inform Moscow about a toxic chemical spill that is flowing toward Russian territory .
Authorities in Russia 's far eastern Khabarovsk region Thursday are on alert as heavily contaminated waters from China head downriver .
Chinese authorities have already had to close the water mains in Harbin , one of China 's largest northeastern cities , because of a huge slick of toxic benzene in the Songhua River .
Scientists say even small amounts of the industrial solvent can cause mouth ulcers , and larger quantities can cause leukemia .
Facing criticism , Chinese officials have promised to take measures to monitor pollutants .
The contamination stems from a chemical plant explosion that spilled toxic compounds into the Songhua River on November 13 .
Fifty people representing 26 countries took the Oath of Allegiance this week ( Thursday ) and became U.S. citizens in a special ceremony at the Newseum in Washington , D.C.
The ceremony was in held in honor of America 's July 4 Independence Day holiday .
VOA 's Ana Ward spoke to some of the participants about the significance of this day and their new life as American citizens .
Jim Bertel narrates .
Police said a bomb blast in eastern Sri Lanka has killed one police officer and one civilian .
Authorities said Tamil Tiger rebels were responsible for the blast in the town of Batticaloa .
They said the blast wounded 11 people , including four schoolchildren .
A Tamil Tiger spokesman could not be reached for comment .
The bombing came as the military surrounded the rebels in the country 's northeast in a push to end the 25-year-old civil war .
Journalists are often unable to independently confirm military and rebel reports because they are barred from the war zone .
Taleban militants have resumed talks with South Korean officials trying to negotiate the release of 19 South Korean aid workers held in Afghanistan for more than a month .
A Red Cross official , Frank Rauchenstein , says negotiations got underway Thursday at the office of the Afghan Red Crescent in Ghazni City .
Monday , the Taleban released two of the hostages in what was described as a " goodwill gesture . "
Taleban militants abducted 23 South Korean Christian aid workers on July 19 while they traveled through Ghazni province on a humanitarian mission .
Two male hostages were executed late last month after the Afghan government failed to meet Taleban demands to release militant prisoners .
Iranian state media say an Iranian rocket launched into space earlier this month has sent data back to Earth .
Iran says the rocket that it launched on February 4 is designed to carry the country 's first home-made satellite into orbit later this year .
Washington criticized Iran 's launch and said it will further isolate Tehran in the international community .
Moscow said it does not approve of Iran 's efforts to develop rocket technology .
The technology used to put satellites into orbit can also be used for launching weapons .
Iran says other countries should not worry about its scientific achievements , and says it wants to launch satellites for research and telecommunications .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has said Iran will test-launch two more rockets before it sends a satellite into orbit .
Denmark 's foreign ministry is urging Danish nationals to leave Lebanon after protesters , angered over a political cartoon of the prophet Mohammed , burned the Danish consulate .
Riot police used tear gas and water cannons to break up the mob .
Lebanese Interior Minister Hassan al-Sabaa resigned following the unrest .
Protesters burned the Danish and Norwegian embassies in Damascus , Syria Saturday .
Muslims throughout the region are boycotting Danish goods .
Store owners have pulled Danish products from shelves .
The cartoon was first printed in a Danish newspaper and then reprinted in a number of European cities .
Muslims call any depiction of the prophet blasphemous .
Muslim and Arab leaders are calling for calm .
Lebanese leaders say violence is as harmful to Islam as the cartoon .
Rising oil prices , global trade imbalances and China 's inflexible currency rates are among issues for discussion Saturday at the start of the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank .
The meetings in Washington begin a day after a gathering of the top economic officials from the world 's seven major industrialized nations - the United States , Japan , Britain , Germany , France , Canada and Italy .
The group issued a statement calling on China to convert its currency to a more flexible exchange rate as a means of addressing Beijing 's trade surplus with much of the world .
The economic officials say the IMF needs to take a more aggressive role in monitoring the currency practices of its member nations .
The statement also spelled out what other nations could do to address global trade imbalances , such as the U.S. reducing its huge budget deficit .
U.S. President Barack Obama has signed into law a $ 2 billion extension to the popular " cash for clunkers " auto rebate program .
Mr. Obama signed the legislation Friday .
The Senate approved the extension late Thursday .
The " cash for clunkers " incentive program has helped boost U.S. auto sales .
The program gives car owners up to $ 4,500 in rebates to trade in older , gas-guzzling vehicles for newer , more fuel-efficient models .
The House of Representatives approved the bill last week to replenish funding for the program , which nearly exhausted its initial $ 1 billion funding limit within a matter of days .
The Obama administration had said the program would have gone broke by Friday if Congress did not approve the extension .
A lawyer for imprisoned Russian oil magnate Mikhail Khodorkovsky says his client has ended a nearly week-long hunger strike .
Attorney Anton Drel says oil magnate ended his fast after authorities transferred his business partner Platon Lebedev from solitary confinement to a regular cell .
Authorities put Lebedev in isolation after accusing him of insulting prison guards .
In May , authorities sentenced the two former owners of the Yukos oil company to nine years in prison for tax evasion and fraud .
Opposition supporters call their trial politically motivated because of Khodorkovsky 's backing of opposition politicians - charges Kremlin authorities deny .
Tibetans around the world are celebrating the 46th anniversary of their Democracy Day .
Among the exiled Tibetan community in India and elsewhere , formal and informal celebrations are being held Saturday .
At a Tibetan school in New Delhi , a gathering of people heard speeches by dignitaries including a representative of Tibetan spiritual leader , the Dalai Lama .
Students at the school performed Tibetan cultural songs and dances for those in attendance .
On September 2 , 1960 , a 13-member assembly of Tibetan exiles met for the first time in Dharamsala , northern India .
The Tibetan community observes this day each year as Democracy Day .
A roadside bomb has ripped through a U.S. military vehicle in Afghanistan , killing one soldier and wounding two others in the northeastern province of Kunar .
A U.S. military spokesman says the troops were driving an armored vehicle southwest of the provincial capital of Asadabad .
Kunar is a mountainous province on the border with Pakistan and is considered a hideout for militants .
Another American soldier was killed and four were injured in southern Afghanistan when their armored vehicle rolled over near Kandahar city .
A U.S. military statement says enemy activities were not a factor in the accident .
Kandahar is a stronghold of Afghanistan 's former Taleban rulers .
Doctors say Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon remains in critical but stable condition - 10 days after suffering a massive stroke .
Jerusalem 's Hadassah hospital issued the update on Mr. Sharon 's condition Saturday evening after the end of the Jewish sabbath .
The hospital said medical tests showed that Mr. Sharon has activity in both of his brain lobes .
For several days , doctors have been reducing the level of sedatives , with the intent of drawing the 77-year-old Mr. Sharon out of an induced coma .
However , he has not shown any signs of waking up .
Nigerian authorities say gunmen have kidnapped a Lebanese man in the country 's volatile southern region .
Military officials say the man was seized along with his car in the city of Warri Tuesday .
The man works for a construction company , Niger Cat .
On Saturday , gunmen kidnapped two Indian petrochemical workers in another southern town , Port Harcourt .
In all , about 100 foreigners have been kidnapped in Nigeria 's oil-rich Niger Delta region this year .
Most have been released unharmed , after their employers paid ransom .
Several hostages also have been injured or killed during rescue attempts by the Nigerian military .
Many of the kidnappings are carried out by criminal gangs , while others are the work of militants who want more of the region 's oil wealth directed to impoverished locals .
Palestinian gunmen have surrounded European Union offices in the Gaza Strip threatening violence and demanding an apology after newspapers in Europe reprinted Danish caricatures of the Prophet Mohammed .
Newspapers in several EU countries published the cartoons Wednesday in a show of solidarity for press freedom .
One cartoon shows the Prophet Mohammed wearing a turban shaped like a bomb .
The militants have threatened to target Danish , French , and Norwegian nationals in the Palestinian territories .
The French-Egyptian owner of the French newspaper France Soir has fired an editor for reprinting the cartoons .
A spokesman for the press freedom group Reporters Without Borders is calling on both sides to calm down .
Meanwhile , a Jordanian weekly newspaper has published three of the 12 cartoons to acquaint the Muslim public with the caricatures .
Publication of the cartoons by a Danish newspaper in September prompted Muslim protests .
Mexican authorities say two police officers and a medical technician are dead after a car rammed two police vehicles in what authorities say was retaliation for the arrest of a drug cartel leader .
Police said the attack Thursday in the violent border town of Ciudad Juarez was a direct response to the arrest earlier in the day of Jesus Acosta Guerrero , a senior gang member linked to the Juarez cartel .
Authorities say the attack caused an explosion , leaving the vehicles badly damaged .
The Associated Press news agency reports the car may have been packed with explosives or inflammable material .
Mexican President Felipe Calderon has deployed thousands of soldiers nationwide to fight drug gangs since taking office in 2006 .
At least 23,000 people have been killed in drug-related violence since the president began cracking down on the cartels .
The Bush administration will ask Congress for more than $ 240 billion to cover the cost of military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan for the next two fiscal years .
Mr. Bush is seeking more than $ 90 billion for the current fiscal year , to go along with the $ 70 billion already approved by lawmakers .
He will also ask for more than $ 140 billion to cover war costs for fiscal year 2008 , which begins October 1 .
The money is separate from the $ 481 billion the president will request for the military 's regular 2008 budget .
The administration has obtained funding for the Iraq and Afghanistan operations through emergency spending bills .
Lawmakers have criticized the practice , saying the emergency bills are not subject to the same scrutiny as regular spending bills .
India and Saudi Arabia have said they intend to form an energy partnership to increase the amount of crude oil supplied to India .
The joint declaration was announced Friday in New Delhi at the end of Saudi King Abdullah 's four-day visit to India .
The agreement , signed by the king and India 's Prime Minister Manmohan Singh , endorses greater exports of Saudi crude oil to India along with Saudi investments in refining and distribution in India .
The two countries said they would establish a joint venture to produce fertilizer at plants in Saudi Arabia .
India imports 70 percent of the oil it consumes .
In the agreement , India and Saudi Arabia also pledged to cooperate in the fight against terrorism .
Former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri , the billionaire tycoon who oversaw the post-civil war reconstruction of Beirut , died Monday in a Beirut car bombing .
He was 60 .
Mr. Hariri became prime minister in 1992 as optimism swept Lebanon two years after the end of its 15-year civil war .
He began massive rebuilding projects , while backing Syrian efforts to consolidate political control in Lebanon .
While dogged by accusations of corruption , Mr. Hariri was also widely known for his philanthropy .
He is said to have paid the education bills of 30,000 Lebanese students , and donated tens of millions of dollars of his own money to Lebanese charities .
He quit the government in 1998 , but returned in 2000 and served as prime minister until quitting again in late 2004 , after Lebanon 's pro-Syrian parliament voted to extend the term of pro-Syrian president and political rival Emile Lahoud .
Lebanon 's newly chosen prime minister , Najib Mikati , has begun talks to form a cabinet , amid rising hopes that the country 's parliamentary elections will be held by the end of May .
The cabinet discussions began Saturday , one day after Lebanese President Emile Lahoud named the moderate pro-Syrian politician as the new prime minister .
Mr. Mikati said his priorities will be holding elections , reviving economic growth , and cooperating with the U.N. probe into February 's assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Lebanon has been without a government since former Prime Minister Omar Karami resigned after the Hariri killing , which the opposition blames on pro-Syrian agents .
President Lahoud re-appointed Mr. Karami , but he quit again this week after failing to form a new government .
Britain is taking new steps to limit the poaching of developing world doctors , nurses and other health care professionals .
A revised code of practice for the country 's National Health System ( NHS ) closes loopholes that allow British employers to strip developing countries of health care professionals .
Growing health care systems in Britain and other industrialized countries actively recruit health care professionals from developing countries .
That " brain drain " puts strain on developing-world health systems facing their own health care crises .
Britain 's new code of practice forbids employers working with the NHS from recruiting from developing countries unless there is an agreement with that country 's government .
British Health Minister John Hutton said in a statement that the NHS is expanding , but wo n't do so at the expense of other countries .
The leaders of Australia and Japan have offered their full support to Britain in the aftermath of the deadly attacks on London 's transit system .
Australian Prime Minister John Howard said Thursday on national radio it is important his country stands " shoulder to shoulder " with its British allies at a time like this .
Mr. Howard expressed his " horror and disgust " at the attacks and said they would not alter the determination of free countries to " do the right thing . "
At the Group of Eight summit in Scotland , Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi said he is outraged by the London attacks .
He noted terrorist acts must not be forgivable .
Sarin gas attacks on the Tokyo subway system in 1995 killed 12 people and injured thousands .
A human rights group has called on Asian leaders to increase pressure on Burma to hasten democratic reforms and stop human rights abuses .
The Alternative ASEAN Network for Burma said officials from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations meeting this week should consider new options in dealing with Burma .
It said leaders should consider supporting a possible resolution on Burma by the United Nations Security Council .
The group also urged ASEAN leaders to acknowledge the many security problems caused by Burma 's military regime .
The rights group accuses Burma 's government of involvement in illegal drug trafficking and human rights abuses , especially against some ethnic groups in Burma .
Iraqi officials say gunmen have killed a member of the secular coalition led by former Iraqi prime minister Ayad Allawi .
Officials say Faras al-Jabouri was shot Saturday after gunmen raided his home near the northern city of Mosul .
Jabouri did not win a seat in the March 7 parliamentary elections in which Mr. Allawi 's Iraqiya list received the most votes .
His death comes two weeks after another member of Mr. Allawi 's bloc was killed .
Gunmen shot Bashar Hamid al-Aqidi May 24 in an ambush outside his home in Mosul .
Iraq 's Supreme Court ratified the election results last week .
None of the political groups won the 163 seats needed to form a majority .
Mr. Allawi 's coalition had the most seats with 91 , just two more than the mainly Shi'ite group led by Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki .
Ecuador 's state-run oil company , Petroecuador , has restored some operations that had been interrupted by six days of protests .
Company officials say production totaled around 33,000 barrels of crude oil per day on Saturday .
However , the rate was still far from the normal output of more than 2,00,000 barrels .
Army troops and police have been helping to restore order and oil production since the government declared a state of emergency in the Sucumbios and Orellana provinces .
Protesters there have been demanding new contract negotiations with foreign oil firms .
They also have called for increased spending on infrastructure and social programs .
The demonstrations forced Petroecuador to suspend production and the government to seek a temporary loan of oil from Venezuela to keep up exports .
Most of Ecuador 's oil exports go to the United States .
Iran is calling an international resolution on its nuclear program politically motivated and illegal , but does not rule out future negotiations with the West .
Speaking Sunday in Tehran , Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki called the International Atomic Energy Agency resolution a scenario determined by the United States in advance .
The IAEA resolution passed Saturday in Vienna accuses Tehran of violating the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty by failing to comply with international nuclear safeguard agreements .
The resolution leaves open the possibility of referring Tehran to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions if it fails to cooperate fully with IAEA inspectors .
Washington accuses Tehran of using its ongoing nuclear program as a cover for efforts to develop an atomic weapon .
Tehran says its program is aimed at developing electricity .
The United States says six world powers have made progress on a new U.N. sanctions resolution aimed at curbing Iran 's nuclear program and could begin drafting the text next week .
Representatives of Germany and the five permanent U.N. Security Council members , the United States , Britain , France , Russia and China , discussed the resolution in a conference call Thursday .
A U.S. State Department spokeswoman , Joanne Moore , said the representatives agreed to confer again by phone on Saturday .
Iran ignored a U.N. Security Council deadline last week to suspend uranium enrichment or face new U.N. sanctions , on top of those imposed in December .
The United States and its Western allies suspect Iran is working to develop nuclear weapons , a charge Tehran denies .
Palestinian officials say ailing Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat has lost consciousness several times while in the intensive care unit of a French military hospital .
The officials say Mr. Arafat has drifted in and out of consciousness since Wednesday .
There are conflicting reports about his present condition and it is not clear whether he is in a coma .
Doctors at the Paris hospital are expected to speak to reporters later Thursday about Mr. Arafat 's condition .
The Palestinian officials provided no more details .
Mr. Arafat has been receiving emergency medical treatment at the hospital since late last week .
He was airlifted to France after being ill for about two weeks .
The exact nature of his illness is still not clear , but officials say he was experiencing intense stomach pains , diarrhea and vomiting .
World oil prices have hit a record high in Asian trading .
Crude oil for future delivery went as high as $ 57.79 a barrel .
Oil had closed at $ 57.25 a barrel Friday in New York after hitting a high of $ 57.7 .
The president of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries , Sheikh Ahmad Fahad al-Ahmad al-Sabah , says oil ministers this week will discuss the possibility of pumping more oil in an effort to bring prices down .
OPEC announced an increase in production quotas in mid-March , but that move failed to bring a significant drop on oil markets .
A recent report by analysts at Goldman-Sachs predicted that oil might eventually cost as much as $ 105 a barrel .
Other analysts think $ 60 is a more likely top price .
Dozens of African health ministers have declared tuberculosis an emergency in the region , where it kills more than half a million people each year .
Officials announced the decision in Mozambique during a meeting of the World Health Organization 's Regional Committee for Africa , which ends Friday .
Officials say urgent measures are needed as TB cases have quadrupled in 18 African nations since 1990 .
The World Health Organization says most cases of the lung infection can be cured through a six-month drug plan .
Experts say TB is a leading cause of death for people with HIV-AIDS , which affects the immune systems of millions of people across Africa .
U.S. President Barack Obama has announced creation of a new foreign policy position focusing on global women 's issues .
The president Friday nominated Melanne Verveer to the post of ambassador-at-large for international women 's issues .
She will work at the State Department under Secretary of State Hillary Clinton .
The White House says the new position reflects the importance of global women 's issues to the Obama administration .
Verveer previously worked as chief of staff for Clinton when she was first lady , and also worked as an aide in the White House for former President Bill Clinton .
Verveer is also the co-founder and chair of Vital Voices Global Partnership .
The White House describes the group as an international non-profit that invests in emerging women leaders .
Russia has expressed concern about the violence in eastern Uzbekistan , one day after soldiers fired on protesters , killing dozens of people in the city of Andijon .
In a telephone conversation Saturday , Uzbek President Islam Karimov briefed Russian President Vladimir Putin about the situation .
Both voiced concern about possible threats to stability in Central Asia , and the two leaders agreed to remain in close contact .
Yesterday , Russian authorities blamed Uzbek protesters for the violence .
But the European Union blamed Tashkent , saying the clashes in Andijon were a result of the government 's lack of respect for human rights and failure to ease poverty .
In Washington , U.S. officials urged both the Uzbek government and demonstrators to show restraint and seek a peaceful resolution .
Japan reportedly is planning to build 12 new facilities in China to dismantle chemical weapons left behind by the Imperial Army at the end of World War II .
Japan 's Yomiuri newspaper said Sunday that the two countries agreed last month to build the facilities near 12 locations including Beijing , Harbin and Nanjing , where abandoned Japanese chemical weapons are stored .
The paper said Japan initially planned to dismantle all the weapons at a major plant in Haerbaling , near the border with North Korea .
But when China raised concerns about the dangers of transporting the weapons over long distances , Tokyo decided to build the smaller facilities spread throughout the country .
The report did not include details about the cost or timetable of the construction .
Afghan and U.S.-led coalition troops say they have killed several suspected Taliban militants during an operation in southern Helmand province .
Coalition officials said in a statement released Tuesday that the latest clash occurred as troops searched a compound for militants associated with the Taliban , as well as others helping foreign fighters .
During the search a gun battle erupted in which several suspected militants died .
A coalition statement said no civilians were killed or injured in the fighting .
The statement adds that a cache of weapons including rifles , rockets and explosives was found and destroyed following following the battle .
Helmand province has been badly affected by the Taliban insurgency .
The area is one of the world 's top opium growing regions .
Journalists in Kenya and abroad are urging Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki to reject legislation that could require reporters to divulge their news sources .
The Kenyan Editors Guild said Thursday that a proposed " Media Bill " passed by parliament last month was crafted in part to settle old scores .
They petitioned Mr. Kibaki to reject the measure .
The media advocacy group Reporters Without Borders is also urging Mr. Kibaki to reject the bill .
The Paris-based group said in a letter that the measure would have " disastrous consequences " for Kenyan democracy , and would undermine a fundamental principle of journalism .
The bill was amended at the last minute to give the government power to demand the names of unnamed news sources in reports that lead to legal disputes .
The Ethiopian government has charged 55 opposition members with trying to launch an armed rebellion .
The state-run Ethiopian News Agency reports the defendants were charged this week with " instigating armed violence " against the government following the 1997 national elections .
All of the defendants are said to be associated with the opposition Coalition for Unity and Democracy .
The report says the proceedings have been adjourned until Thursday .
More than 80 other opposition figures are already on trial in Ethiopia , accused of treason and attempting to commit genocide .
Those suspects were charged in the wake of unrest that followed the disputed 2005 elections .
The trial has drawn harsh criticism from donors and human rights groups who say the government is trying to stifle dissent .
OPEC 's most influential member says the oil cartel should raise production quotas at Wednesday 's meeting in Iran .
Saudi Arabia 's Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi says the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries should boost output by 5,00,000 barrels a day from the current self-imposed limit of 27 million barrels .
Supply concerns were one factor behind last week 's surge that pushed oil prices to within pennies of the all-time record in New York trading .
The price of crude oil for April delivery declined after the Saudi announcement .
But oil prices later rose 52 cents to close at $ 54.95 a barrel in New York on Monday .
OPEC produces about 40 percent of the world 's oil and energy ministers from its 11 members are gathering to discuss oil supplies and prices .
China has urged Burma to take effective measures to safeguard the rights of Chinese citizens in Burma .
The Chinese foreign ministry said on its Web site Saturday that consular affairs department chief Wei Wei conveyed Beijing 's concerns at a meeting with an official from Burma 's embassy .
The release said Wei met on September 21 with Kyi Kyi Sein , minister counselor of the Burma Embassy .
Wei urged Burma to investigate reports that military conflicts in northern Burma in August had harmed the rights and interests of Chinese citizens living there .
Tens of thousands of refugees fled across the border into China to escape fighting between the Burmese army and ethnic rebels in Kokang , a mainly ethnic Chinese region of Burma 's Shan state .
Zimbabwe 's ruling ZANU-PF party has rejected the campaign of Information Minister Jonathan Moyo in this year 's parliamentary elections .
The state-run Herald newspaper reports Monday that Mr. Moyo 's name is not included in a new list of candidates in upcoming primary votes .
It says Mr. Moyo was planning to compete in the Tsholotsho district that has been reserved for female candidates .
President Robert Mugabe has said he will only choose elected lawmakers for his cabinet after the elections .
The Herald reports the primary list also does not include Justice Minister Patrick Chinamasa , former Harare mayor Tony Gara , and war veterans leader Joseph Chinotimba .
Also missing is current lawmaker Philip Chiyangwa , who was jailed last month on charges of spying .
Chinese President Hu Jintao has arrived in Spain Sunday for a two day-visit aimed at strengthening bilateral ties .
His schedule includes talks with King Juan Carlos and Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero .
In part , Spain hopes to increase exports to reduce its trade inbalance with China .
Mr. Hu arrived in Madrid from Germany where he conferred with outgoing Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder , Chancellor-designate Angela Merkel , and other senior officials .
The two sides are said to have signed a number of business agreements , and pledged to continue close ties between Berlin and Beijing .
Spain is the last leg of Mr. Hu 's European tour that began last Tuesday in Britain .
Demonstrators protesting Chinese policies on human rights and Tibet have followed Mr. Hu throughout his trip .
Mexican President Felipe Calderon has condemned an attack on a Chihuahua drug rehabilitation facility that left 19 people dead .
Mr. Calderon issued a statement from Johannesburg where he attended the opening of the World Cup .
He said the attack by more than 24 armed men reinforces the conviction to fight criminal gangs that carry out such " barbaric acts . "
On Thursday , a gang of gunmen killed 20 people in another northern Mexican town known for drug-related gang warfare .
Authorities say some of the 18 men and two women killed in the series of shootings in Madero were bound in handcuffs .
An estimated 23,000 people have been killed in drug-related violence in Mexico since President Calderon began a crackdown on the drug cartels after taking office in December 2006 .
Representatives of the European Union and China have begun a fourth day of talks in Beijing to resolve a trade dispute over Chinese textiles .
There is no word on any progress in the talks , which began Thursday .
A spokesman for the EU office in Beijing has said negotiators are trying to reach a new agreement on textile quotas .
China agreed in June to quotas in its textile exports to the EU .
But millions of items of clothing manufactured in China have been blocked in European ports because China has already shipped its annual quota .
The quotas are designed to protect European textile manufacturers from low-priced Chinese competition .
Chinese textile exports surged early this year when a global system of textile quotas ended .
Forecasters say Hurricane Otis is gaining strength as it moves closer to Mexico 's northwestern coast .
The U.S. National Hurricane Center says the Category One storm has winds of 150 kilometers per hour and is moving toward the Baja California Peninsula .
The storm is currently projected to hit the central portion of the Baja Peninsula as early as Sunday .
Forecasters warn that a shift in position could result in an earlier landfall on the southern end of the peninsula .
Insurgents have knocked out electrical power to much of Baghdad on the eve of Iraq 's nationwide constitutional referendum .
After dark Friday , saboteurs hit powerlines north of Baghdad .
Electrical Ministry officials say they do not know how long it will take to restore power to the capital .
The streets of Baghdad were mostly quiet Friday due to security measures put in place to prevent violence from interfering with election preparations .
At Friday prayers , clerics discussed the proposed constitution .
Some told worshippers to vote for its adoption , while others urged its rejection .
Authorities reported gunshots fired at two polling stations .
Insurgents also bombed and set fire to offices belonging to the largest Sunni Arab political party , the Iraqi Islamic Party , in apparent retaliation for its decision to support the constitution .
The United Nations Development Program has named Spanish actor Antonio Banderas as a Goodwill Ambassador in the fight against poverty .
The U.N. said Wednesday Banderas will work to enact the U.N. Millennium Development Goals that were established to fight hunger , disease , illiteracy , environmental degradation and discrimination against women .
Banderas issued a statement saying he will work with the U.N. Development Program to take action on the goals , with a particular focus on Latin America and Africa .
The actor will also work to raise awareness of the $ 710 million Millennium Development Goal Achievement Fund , which supports national and local governments as well as citizen organizations in their efforts to tackle poverty and inequality .
Antonio Banderas was born in Spain and is an accomplished actor , writer , singer and producer .
Philippine President Gloria Arroyo has approved legislation abolishing the death penalty ahead of a planned trip to the Vatican .
The law Ms. Arroyo signed Saturday automatically commutes the sentences of about 1,200 death row convicts in the Philippines to life imprisonment .
Congress restored the death penalty in the mid-1990s for serious crimes such as murder .
Seven people have been executed since then .
Ms. Arroyo is to leave for the Vatican and Spain Sunday .
She had been scheduled to leave Saturday , but the trip was rescheduled so she could receive two days of hospital treatment for a stomach virus .
Iran 's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad says he suspects Britain may have played a role in twin bomb attacks that killed five people and injured 100 others in southwestern Iran .
Iran 's Student News Agency quoted Mr. Ahmadinejad as saying Iranian officials have found what he called British " footprints " in past attacks .
He added the presence of British troops in southern Iraq and near Iran 's border is a factor behind insecurity in both countries .
Britain 's embassy in Tehran has rejected the allegations and condemned Saturday 's attack near a shopping center in Khuzestan province .
In a statement , it said any link between the British government and terrorist attacks in the area is without foundation .
Earlier this month , British officials accused Iran and Lebanese militants of supplying explosives technology to insurgents in Iraq .
Farmer in Ivory Coast 's Duekoue cocoa plantation Unidentified attackers have killed at least 41 villagers in Ivory Coast 's western cocoa region .
Army spokesman Jules Yao Yao says 64 others were wounded in the attack early Wednesday outside the town of Duekoue .
He says the victims were shot , stabbed or burned to death .
Witnesses say they were all members of the ethnic Guere tribe .
It is not clear what sparked the attack .
However , clashes between indigenous tribes and migrant farm workers are common in the region .
Tensions between the groups have been exacerbated by Ivory Coast 's civil war , which began in 2002 .
The United Nations peacekeeping mission in Ivory Coast says it has sent patrols to the region to investigate .
Lebanese security officials say a car bomb explosion has killed a senior member of the militant Palestinian group Islamic Jihad in Sidon , Friday .
The officials say the militant 's brother also died in the blast near the central square of the southern coastal city .
There has been no claim of responsibility for the bombing .
Islamic Jihad blamed Israel for the attack on the militant leader Mahmoud Majzoub , but Israeli officials denied any knowledge of the bombing .
Amnesty International says Zimbabwe 's upcoming parliamentary elections will not be free and fair -- because the government of Zimbabwe continues to use threats and intimidation against opposition supporters .
Samkelo Mokhine is the chairman for Amnesty International in Johannesburg , South Africa .
He told English to Africa reporter William Eagle that his group is offering several suggestions to improve the conduct of the elections .
One is to train monitors how to look for human rights violations , such as withholding access to food .
Another is to watch for attacks on all parties before , during and after the polls .
Amnesty says any violations should then be publicly denounced and reported to authorities .
The group says monitors should also have access to all sectors of the population – since many violations occur far away from polling stations .
Pakistani authorities say police in the southern port city of Karachi have arrested two al-Qaida militants for their involvement in a suicide attack earlier this year that killed a U.S. diplomat .
The police chief for the Sindh province Jehangir Mirza says the suspects were captured during an early morning Monday raid .
The blast near the U.S. consulate in Karachi on March 2 killed the U.S. diplomat David Foy , three Pakistanis and the attacker who rammed his explosive-laden car into a car carrying the diplomat .
More than 50 people were wounded in the attack , including a Moroccan child .
Last week , Pakistani intelligence officials arrested six people in connection with the attack and identified the suicide bomber .
Authorities said the six were associated with the suicide attacker , and that they were linked to al-Qaida , as well as banned domestic militant groups .
President Bush says the United States will drop subsidies to American farmers - if the European Union does the same in Europe .
He told British television Sunday , ending those subsidies would allow African countries to compete better , reducing their need for international aid .
President Bush will attend he Group of Eight Summit this week , which will discuss aid to Africa .
But farm subsidies are very popular in France and Germany , and the U.S. challenge is not thought likely to be accepted .
President Bush also said he will reject any Kyoto-style deal on climate change at the G8 summit in Scotland .
He said the 1997 U.N. Kyoto protocol , which Washington never ratified , would have ruined the American economy with its mandated reductions on carbon emissions .
Mr. Bush favors a focus on clean technologies to counter climate change .
An Iranian news report quotes a top nuclear official as saying Tehran will " seriously and enthusiastically " study a Russian proposal to enrich uranium from Iran on Russian soil .
The comments by Javad Vaeedi , the deputy head of Iran 's National Security Council , were reported Wednesday by the Iranian Student News Agency .
The United States and the European Union have voiced grave concerns that without oversight , Tehran will process uranium to the highly enriched level needed to make an atomic bomb .
Tehran says it is seeking a lower grade of enriched uranium to fuel a nuclear power plant .
Wednesday 's comments by the Iranian official are the most positive public statements from Tehran since Moscow offered earlier this year to supply enriched uranium for Iran 's Bushehr reactor .
The comments are also the first public acknowledgment that Tehran has received the Russian offer .
Four suspected al-Qaida members in Saudi Arabian custody have said on Saudi media they planned to attack oil facilities in the kingdom and other Gulf states .
Saudi police detained the four last year in connection with a failed February 2006 attack on the Abqaiq oil complex .
Security guards foiled the attack .
The four suspects appeared on Saudi television this week .
They are accused of providing logistical support to the bombers .
One of the four , identified as Abdullah al-Muqrin , said the plan to attack oil facilities in Saudi Arabia was to coincide with other al-Qaida attacks on oil facilities in Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates .
Al-Muqrin also said he was told al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden would authorize the attacks .
With the U.S. economy in recession , some Americans are finding ways to be thrifty this holiday season : spending time and money on handmade gifts .
Making , rather than buying , holiday gifts is growing in popularity .
In 1974 , ethnic differences within the British colony of the Gilbert and Ellice Islands caused the Polynesians of the Ellice Islands to vote for separation from the Micronesians of the Gilbert Islands .
The following year , the Ellice Islands became the separate British colony of Tuvalu .
Independence was granted in 1978 .
In 2000 , Tuvalu negotiated a contract leasing its Internet domain name " . tv " for $ 50 million in royalties over a 12-year period .
Tonga has a small , open , South Pacific island economy .
It has a narrow export base in agricultural goods .
Squash , vanilla beans , and yams are the main crops .
Agricultural exports , including fish , make up two-thirds of total exports .
The country must import a high proportion of its food , mainly from New Zealand .
The country remains dependent on external aid and remittances from Tongan communities overseas to offset its trade deficit .
Tourism is the second-largest source of hard currency earnings following remittances .
Tonga had 39,000 visitors in 2006 .
The government is emphasizing the development of the private sector , especially the encouragement of investment , and is committing increased funds for health and education .
Tonga has a reasonably sound basic infrastructure and well developed social services .
High unemployment among the young , a continuing upturn in inflation , pressures for democratic reform , and rising civil service expenditures are major issues facing the government .
Shortly after achieving independence from Britain in the early 1960s , Tanganyika and Zanzibar merged to form the nation of Tanzania in 1964 .
One-party rule ended in 1995 with the first democratic elections held in the country since the 1970s .
Zanzibar 's semi-autonomous status and popular opposition have led to two contentious elections since 1995 , which the ruling party won despite international observers ' claims of voting irregularities .
The formation of a government of national unity between Zanzibar 's two leading parties succeeded in minimizing electoral tension in 2010
Phosphate mining had been the only significant economic activity , but in December 1987 the Australian government closed the mine .
In 1991 , the mine was reopened .
With the support of the government , a $ 34 million casino opened in 1993 , but closed in 1998 .
From 2004 to 2007 , the economy grew about 10 % per year , driven largely by an expansion in the garment sector , construction , agriculture , and tourism .
GDP contracted slightly in 2009 as a result of the global economic slowdown , but climbed more than 4 % in 1010 , driven by renewed exports .
With the January 2005 expiration of a WTO Agreement on Textiles and Clothing , Cambodian textile producers were forced to compete directly with lower-priced countries such as China , India , Vietnam , and Bangladesh .
The garment industry currently employs more than 2,80,000 people - about 5 % of the work force - and contributes more than 70 % of Cambodia 's exports .
In 2005 , exploitable oil deposits were found beneath Cambodia 's territorial waters , representing a new revenue stream for the government if commercial extraction begins .
Mining also is attracting significant investor interest , particularly in the northern parts of the country .
The government has said opportunities exist for mining bauxite , gold , iron and gems .
In 2006 , a US-Cambodia bilateral Trade and Investment Framework Agreement ( TIFA ) was signed , and several rounds of discussions have been held since 2007 .
Rubber exports increased about 25 % in 2009 due to rising global demand .
The tourism industry has continued to grow rapidly , with foreign arrivals exceeding 2 million per year in 2007 - 8 ; however , economic troubles abroad dampened growth in 2009 .
The global financial crisis is weakening demand for Cambodian exports , and construction is declining due to a shortage of credit .
The long-term development of the economy remains a daunting challenge .
The Cambodian government is working with bilateral and multilateral donors , including the World Bank and IMF , to address the country 's many pressing needs .
The major economic challenge for Cambodia over the next decade will be fashioning an economic environment in which the private sector can create enough jobs to handle Cambodia 's demographic imbalance .
More than 50 % of the population is less than 25 years old .
The population lacks education and productive skills , particularly in the poverty-ridden countryside , which suffers from an almost total lack of basic infrastructure .
A FOWLER , taking his bird-lime and his twigs , went out to catch birds .
Seeing a thrush sitting upon a tree , he wished to take it , and fitting his twigs to a proper length , watched intently , having his whole thoughts directed towards the sky .
While thus looking upwards , he unknowingly trod upon a Viper asleep just before his feet .
The Viper , turning about , stung him , and falling into a swoon , the man said to himself , " Woe is me ! that while I purposed to hunt another , I am myself fallen unawares into the snares of death . "
A manager is a person who thinks that nine women can produce a child in one month .
The United Nations ' new envoy to Somalia has held his first talks with President Abdullah Yusuf and other officials in Mogadishu .
Upon arriving in the capital , Ahmedou Ould Abdallah called the humanitarian and human rights situation in Somalia " the worst on the continent . "
Abdallah , a Mauritanian diplomat , was appointed to the post September 12 .
The envoy 's meeting with top leaders came as two explosions ripped through Mogadishu 's Bakara market , a site of frequent attacks in recent months .
Both explosions went off as government forces drove through the area .
Witnesses say at least five police officers were wounded in one of the attacks .
Syria says it is forming a joint commission with Beirut to investigate whether a Syrian military post is actually in Lebanese territory .
The announcement follows the broadcast of Arab television news footage showing a border post near a village in the southern Bekaa valley , in the area of Deir al-Ashayier to the east of Kfar Kouk , where Syrian troops are reported to be still stationed .
Last month , Syria said it had withdrawn all of its troops and intelligence agents from Lebanon , but the pullout is still being verified by a United Nations team in the country .
Last week , U.N. officials said the Lebanese government still does not fully control large parts of the country .
Syrian officials say they are willing to cooperate with a U.N. investigation into the assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
The French Press Agency , AFP and Reuters quote an unnamed Syrian official as making that statement Friday , one day after a top U.N. official said Damascus has ignored requests to help with the probe .
Undersecretary-General for Political Affairs Ibrahim Gambari said Damascus has not responded to requests for documents and for interviews with witnesses .
The U.N. Security Council later urged all countries - especially those who it said have " yet to respond adequately " - to cooperate fully .
Friday 's news reports say the head of the probe , German prosecutor Detlev Mehlis , will meet shortly with a Syrian representative .
Many in Lebanon have accused Syria of being behind Mr. Hariri 's February 14 assassination - a charge Damascus denies .
The U.S. military says U.S.-led forces in Iraq have captured a prominent militant linked to al-Qaida ally Abu Musab al-Zarqawi .
A military statement issued Saturday says Abdul Aziz Sa'dun Ahmed Hamduni -- also known as Abu Ahmed -- was detained on December 22 .
The military says Abu Ahmed was the deputy of Abu Talha , commander of a Zarqawi terrorist group in the northern city of Mosul .
Last week , the Iraqi government announced the capture of two other Abu Talha leaders in late December .
The developments come as Iraq prepares for elections on January 30 .
President Bush says the U.S. military will do its best to give every Iraqi citizen a chance to vote .
On Friday , the president confirmed reports he is sending a team to Iraq to assess the country 's security situation .
The U.S. government is working to bolster troubled banks at a time when officials worry the recession may get worse and hit financial companies even harder .
The U.S. Treasury department and other financial regulators say they will ease the repayment terms of hundreds of billions of dollars worth of aid they have given to banks and make it easier for banks to use government help in the future .
This week , regulators will check banks to see if they have the reserves needed to " provide the credit necessary to restore economic growth . "
Those banks that can not raise the needed capital from private sources could get additional government help .
After Monday 's announcement , the share prices of two major banks , Citigroup and the Bank of America , rose .
Those firms had seen shares plunge last week after investors grew worried that the banks could not cope with rising credit losses .
Australia has announced plans to buy 100 state-of-the-art U.S. jet fighters and double the size of its small submarine fleet to keep pace with an Asian military buildup .
Prime Minister Kevin Rudd launched the government 's defense white paper for the next 20 years onboard the HMAS Stuart in Sydney Harbor Saturday .
Mr. Rudd said the government will increase annual defense spending by three percent over the next decade .
Under the plan , Australia will buy 12 submarines fitted with cruise missiles , eight warships and 100 F-35 Lightning Joint Strike Fighter jets .
Opposition leader Malcolm Turnbull criticized the plan , saying the government has failed to explain how it will pay for the project .
The paper predicted that China will be the strongest Asian military power and said Beijing should assure its neighbors that it is not a threat to their sovereignty .
Authorities in Indian Kashmir say three policemen have been killed and at least 11 people were wounded in two separate incidents Thursday .
The authorities say the police officers died when suspected Islamic militants ambushed their patrol north of Jammu .
Two policemen are missing .
In the town of Awantipora , north of Srinagar , suspected militants hurled a grenade at a busy intersection , wounding at least 11 pedestrians .
Police sealed-off the area and are looking for the attackers .
Militant separatists continue their attacks against government targets in Kashmir , saying they oppose the ongoing peace process between India and Pakistan .
Kashmiri militants have been fighting since 1989 for Kashmir 's independence or its merger with Pakistan .
The insurgency has claimed tens of thousand of lives .
Pirates have hijacked a Greek-owned cargo vessel in the Gulf of Aden , off the coast of Somalia .
The Greek merchant marine ministry says pirates seized the MV Saldanha early Sunday , as it headed toward Slovenia with a load of coal .
The ministry says the ship was carrying 22 crew members , their nationalities unknown .
Somali pirates have received millions of dollars in ransom payments during a hijacking spree over the past year .
The attacks have continued despite increased naval patrols by the U.S. , European Union and other world powers .
At least 20 people in Baghdad have been killed in a series of attacks in the Iraqi capital .
Iraqi authorities said two bombs exploded minutes apart Tuesday at the main Shurja market in central Baghdad , killing 10 and injuring 69 others .
The latest violence underscores the security crisis facing Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki as he attempts to halt what many analysts see as a slide towards civil war .
Much of the violence has been blamed on sectarian militias .
About 6,000 additional Iraqi troops and 3,500 U.S. troops are being deployed in the Iraqi capital to help stem the violence .
In another development , the U.S. military says the Fourth Iraqi Army division has officially assumed the lead in its area of responsibility from the 101st U.S. Airborne division .
The area includes the cities of Kirkuk and Tikrit .
The State Department says it will ask Congress for $ 75 million in additional funding this year to promote democracy in Iran .
Officials say the money would be used for radio and television broadcasts to Iran and exchange programs for Iranian students .
They say Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice plans to request the funds when she appears before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Wednesday .
Rice is expected to face questions from the panel on the Bush administration 's policies on Iran , which is facing growing international pressure to abandon its controversial nuclear program .
Russian and French leaders Tuesday called on Tehran to stop all uranium enrichment .
China urged more diplomatic efforts to ease growing tension over the program , which the West says is aimed at developing a nuclear weapon .
The Iranian foreign minister says the three American hikers held in Iran after crossing the border with Iraq will stand trial .
Manouchehr Mottaki did not say when the proceedings would begin during a news conference Monday in Tehran .
He said the Americans entered Iran with " suspicious aims . "
Iran has accused them of espionage .
The three U.S. citizens were detained on July 31 for entering Iran illegally , after they apparently strayed across the border while on a hike in northern Iraq .
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has said Washington believes there is no evidence to support any charge against the hikers .
She has appealed to Iranian authorities to exercise compassion and free the trio .
Iran and the United States have no diplomatic relations , and are embroiled in a dispute over Iran 's nuclear program .
The Nigerian city of Maiduguri was quiet Sunday as police and military patrolled the day after 15 people were killed in rioting over cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad .
Muslims went on a rampage Saturday , attacking Christians and burning churches and shops owned by Christians before troops and police restored order .
On Sunday the secretary general of the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs , Lateef Adegbite appealed to Christians not to retaliate , saying the riot was a misguided adventure by Muslims who acted against the tenets of Islam .
The Maiduguri riot was the latest outbreak of Muslim anger over cartoons originally published in a Danish newspaper last year .
Many Muslims believe depiction of the Prophet Muhammad is blasphemous .
An audio recording posted on the Internet Wednesday , says Muslim religious scholars or Ulemas have betrayed Islamic fighters by keeping silent about U.S. actions in Iraq and Afghanistan .
The message charges the Ulemas have quit supporting the mujahedin , betraying them in the darkest circumstances and leaving them to confront the world 's greatest power alone .
The recording was attributed to wanted al-Qaida-linked terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqwai .
Its authenticity could not be independently verified .
Al-Zarqawi - Iraq 's most wanted man - is believed to have fled his base in Fallujah during the U.S.-led assault on the insurgent-held city earlier this month .
A bomb exploded Tuesday near a Kurdish party 's office in northern Iraq , killing at least three Iraqi soldiers .
Reports from Mosul said a car bomb went off close to the office of the Kurdistan Democratic Party .
No one claimed responsibility for the attack , which occurred in a city considered one of the last urban strongholds of al-Qaida in Iraq .
In central Baghdad Tuesday , a bomb blast struck a convoy carrying a senior Iraqi official .
Major General Ahmed al-Attiya , who heads the nation 's customs agency , escaped injury , but three of his security guards were wounded .
Violence has been on the rise in the days leading up to provincial elections this Saturday .
The crew of the U.S. space shuttle Atlantis has returned to the southeastern state of Florida to prepare for a new launch attempt on Wednesday .
Their shuttle launch was scrubbed earlier this week when a tropical storm Ernesto was expected to pass near the launch site .
The spacecraft was moved to a hangar , and the six astronauts flew back to their training base in Houston .
If the National Air and Space Administration is not able to launch Atlantis next week , the mission to the International Space Station likely will be postponed until October .
NASA 's plans call for an 11-day mission to the space station , where astronauts will conduct three spacewalks to attach solar panels .
The panels eventually will generate one quarter of the station 's energy .
Israel has moved a step closer to the creation of a moderate , new government .
An ambitious plan to draw Israel 's final borders by 2010 is topping the agenda .
Interim Prime Minister Ehud Olmert 's centrist Kadima Party and the Dovish Labor party have signed a coalition agreement .
It includes a pledge to withdraw from large parts of the West Bank over the next four years .
Under Mr. Olmert 's plan , about 70,000 Jewish settlers would be removed from their homes .
At the same time , Israel would annex big West Bank settlement blocs .
Mr. Olmert says he would prefer to do this as part of an agreement with the Palestinians .
But he believes that is impossible because the Islamic militant group Hamas , which seeks Israel 's destruction , now heads the Palestinian Authority .
Mr. Olmert says if there is no Palestinian peace partner , Israel will withdraw unilaterally .
" We will have to act on the basis of a broad national consensus in Israel and work towards fixing of the permanent border lines even without an agreement . "
Former Palestinian legislator Sabri Saddam says expanding settlements and annexing land will only bring more conflict .
" The unilateral withdrawal is not a solution at all but rather a FALSE disengagement , " he said .
" What we 're looking for is a final , just and fair peace . "
In addition to Palestinian opposition , Mr. Olmert faces another obstacle to implementing the pullout plan .
His coalition with Labor does not give him a majority in the 120-member Knesset or parliament .
Therefore , he will have to bring the ultra-Orthodox Shas party into the coalition , and Shas opposes the pullout plan .
Analysts say the government could collapse in two or three years , when the time comes to remove tens of thousands settlers from their homes .
Nepal 's parliament has voted to abolish the country 's centuries-old monarchy and change to a republic .
Friday 's vote was part of negotiations between former Maoist rebels and six other political parties .
The Maoists bolted from the interim government in September after demanding election reform and an immediate end to the monarchy .
The final vote was 270 - 3 .
King Gyanendra will still remain on the throne until parliamentary elections are held in April .
Under the plan , voters will elect 240 assembly members by direct vote , and 335 other candidates based on proportional representation .
The vote brings to an end a decade-long effort by the Maoists to replace the monarchy .
The rebels which fought a bloody civil war that left some 13,000 Nepalese dead .
The Russian justice ministry says it will sell off part of oil giant Yukos in order to cover the company 's outstanding back taxes .
Ministry officials said Tuesday the value of a Yukos subsidiary Yuganskneftegaz has been established so the government can prepare for the sale .
Officials say Yukos has been taking too much time in paying its back taxes .
A Russian court ruled Monday the embattled company must pay nearly all of the $ 1.34 billion in fines connected to its 2001 tax bill .
Yukos is already struggling to pay $ 3.4 billion in taxes and fines for 2000 , and $ 2.7 billion in taxes for 2001 .
Government critics charge the actions against Yukos are in retaliation for support the firm 's former chief Mikhail Khodorkovsky gave to the political opposition .
The leaders of Chad and Sudan have signed a peace accord , pledging to deny refuge to each other 's rebel groups .
Presidents Omar al-Bashir of Sudan and Idriss Deby of Chad reached the agreement Wednesday at a summit hosted by Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi in Tripoli .
Their accord calls for Sudan and Chad to work toward normal relations , and to not use their territories to support harmful activity against each other .
Chad has accused Sudan of harboring rebels opposed to Mr. Deby , while Sudan has said that Chad is backing rebels fighting Sudanese government forces in war-torn Darfur .
The accord calls for the creation of an African force to preserve security on the Chad-Sudan border .
Which countries will supply troops and finance the force has not been determined .
In Pakistan local officials say Pakistani troops have killed at least eight militants in clashes in the northwest region of the country .
The French news agency reports that two underground hideouts used by militants were also captured in Sunday 's operation in the restive Orakzai tribal district .
Pakistan 's military launched an offensive against Taliban insurgents in Orakzai in March , to target militants who are believed to have fled an earlier military offensive in South Waziristan .
Lawyers for imprisoned Russian oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky say authorities have filed new charges against their client .
The lawyers say they are still trying to determine the exact nature of the charges .
But they indicate that those filed Monday appear to differ little from earlier charges against the imprisoned former oil executive .
They called the new filing an effort to extend the inquiry into the case .
Khodorkovsky , the former chief of the Yukos Oil Company , is serving eight years in prison for fraud and tax evasion - charges he says were politically motivated because of his support for opposition politicians .
The former oil executive is being held in the Siberian city of Chita , where authorities have been investigating money laundering and theft charges against him .
The probe involves the theft of more than $ 33 million from Yukos subsidiaries .
Pakistani authorities say security forces have captured a high-ranking Taleban leader in Quetta , the capital of southwestern Baluchistan province .
Intelligence officials say Mullah Obaidullah Akhund , a former Taleban defense minister and a close associate of fugitive Taleban leader Mullah Omar , was arrested during a raid on a home earlier this week .
The Pakistani government has not confirmed the arrest .
Akhund would be the most senior leader from the Islamist militia to be nabbed since the Taleban was ousted from power in neighboring Afghanistan in late 2001 .
His arrest follows a surprise visit to Pakistan by U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney , who urged President Pervez Musharraf to do more to stop insurgents from crossing into Afghanistan .
General Musharraf reiterated the country is doing all it can to secure its border and defeat insurgents .
Indian opposition leader Lal Krishna Advani says he will resign as head of the Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) .
In a statement issued Sunday in Chennai , Mr. Advani pledged to step down after the party 's next plenary meeting in December .
This is the second time the former deputy prime minister announced his resignation .
Mr. Advani first offered to step down in June after returning from a visit to Pakistan .
His praise for the Islamic nation 's founder Mohammed Ali Jinnah angered staunch Hindu nationalists , who blame Mr. Jinnah for the violent partition of the subcontinent in 1947 .
The rift within the party that Mr. Advani 's comments provoked was temporarily patched over .
Russian President Vladimir Putin has sent new year 's greetings to 80-year old Vassily Kononov , a Soviet partisan in World War II who was convicted in Latvia of war crimes .
Mr. Putin said heroes should not be slandered .
Mr. Kononov was convicted last year of murdering Latvian civilians in 1944 in a trial that angered many Russians , who view him as a legitimate war hero .
Mr. Putin 's letter saluted Mr. Kononov 's contribution to the defeat of the Nazis in World War II , noting that 2005 will mark the 60th anniversary of the end of the war .
Relations between Russia and its Baltic neighbor have been strained in recent years , in part because Latvia decided to join the NATO alliance .
Japanese prosecutors have indicted a U.S. sailor in connection with the death of a Japanese woman .
William Oliver Reese , 21 , is accused of robbing and fatally beating 56-year-old Yoshie Sato on January 3 .
Japanese authorities say the attack occurred near the U.S. Navy base in Yokosuka , southwest of Tokyo .
Reese is stationed on the USS Kitty Hawk aircraft carrier .
The homicide has rekindled concerns about crimes committed by U.S. military personnel in Japan .
In 1995 , Japanese citizens protested against the U.S. military presence after the rape of a schoolgirl in Okinawa .
This latest incident comes during a crucial time as Washington and Tokyo discuss the reorganization of U.S. troops in Japan .
Roughly 50,000 American troops are stationed in Japan .
The Russian gas monopoly Gazprom has approved a plan to bid for a main production unit of the troubled giant oil firm Yukos .
The company 's board of directors Wednesday also approved obtaining outside financing for the December 19 bidding on the unit , Yuganskneftegaz .
Government officials say they want to recover billions of dollars Yukos owes in back taxes .
Bids are to start at $ 8.6 billion , far below what independent assessors say the unit is worth .
The Interfax news agency quotes a source close to Yukos saying authorities questioned a member of the firm 's legal department for eight hours Tuesday in a probe of financial wrongdoing .
The report says the interrogation ended only after the man lost consciousness .
Russian officials have pledged to fight corporate corruption and today gave mobile phone operator VimpelCom a tax bill for nearly $ 160 million for 2000 .
U.S. media reports say the United States is investigating possible Iranian involvement in a recent attack in the Iraqi city of Karbala , in which five American soldiers were killed .
The reports in the New York Times and CNN television quote unnamed U.S. officials as saying the Defense Department is trying to determine whether Iranians or Iranian-trained operatives carried out the attack on a U.S. military compound last Saturday .
The U.S. military has said the attack was well coordinated , with assailants dressed in U.S. military-style uniforms and driving vehicles similar to those used by U.S. troops .
The White House said Wednesday that it would not comment on what it called " speculation " about Iranian involvement in the Karbala attack .
But spokesman Tony Snow repeated U.S. warnings to respond " forcefully " to anyone trying to kill U.S. troops in Iraq or destabilize the country .
Officials in India say a blast on a packed train that killed at least 12 people and left dozens wounded was apparently caused by a bomb .
The explosion occurred Thursday near the town of Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh state .
The train was traveling from the eastern city of Patna to New Delhi at the time of the explosion .
Local news media reported Friday that bomb experts found traces of the explosive substance RDX ( also known as Hexogen ) in the train .
A local official told the French News Agency the blast came from an unclaimed suitcase near a toilet .
RDX , which forms the base of a number of common military explosives , has been used by Islamic militants fighting Indian rule in Kashmir , as well as by separatist rebels in the troubled northeast region , who frequently target trains .
German police have conducted a series of raids against individuals suspected of gathering donations to finance radical Islamic activities abroad .
Officials say police made no arrests , but raided 33 apartments and four businesses in Wednesday 's operation , which took place primarily in the southern state of Bavaria .
They said officers seized computers and propaganda materials during the raids .
Officials said the operation targeted 24 people , including citizens of Lebanon , Iraq , Egypt , Jordan and Tunisia .
Tuesday , an Italian court charged two suspected Islamic militants with terrorism , while police in Spain arrested four Moroccans allegedly linked to last year 's deadly Madrid train bombings .
Also Tuesday , British authorities released an Egyptian terror suspect held for more than three years without charge , citing a lack of evidence .
President Bush welcomes Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo to the White House Thursday for talks expected to focus on the situations in Sudan and Ivory Coast .
Mr. Obasanjo is current chairman of the African Union , which has been working to end internal fighting in both countries and the humanitarian crisis in Sudan 's Darfur region where 1.6 million people have been driven from their homes .
The United Nations says the war between rebels and pro-government forces in Darfur has also killed some 70,000 people .
The White House says Mr. Bush and Mr. Obasanjo plan to discuss the A.U. role in regional defense and security issues .
It says the two leaders will also review U.S.-Nigerian relations and opportunities for trade and investment .
Later in the day , Mr. Obasanjo will meet with U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell .
Mehmet Ali Talat holding an olive branch after voting Turkish Cypriot Prime Minister Mehmet Ali Talat has won Sunday presidential election in the breakaway enclave .
With all the votes counted , Mr. Talat had more than 55 percent of the vote , while his nearest rival won just under 23 percent .
Nine candidates were running .
Mr. Talat will replace 81-year-old Rauf Denktash , who has led the self-declared Turkish Cypriot state for decades and did not seek re-election .
When the vote result was announced , Mr. Talat immediately called for new reunification talks with Greek Cypriots .
Cyprus has been divided between Greek and Turkish Cypriot communities since 1974 .
Turkish Cypriots voted last year in favor of a U.N. reunification plan , but Greek Cypriots rejected it .
Syria says it has arrested kidnappers suspected of killing a Kurdish Muslim cleric , as thousands of Kurds gathered to mourn his death .
An unnamed official in the Interior Ministry told Syrian state media Wednesday that a criminal gang was believed to have kidnapped Sheikh Mohammad Maashouq al-Khaznawi three weeks ago .
Officials from the Yekiti Kurdish Party say hospital officials in northeastern Syria found signs of torture on the cleric 's body , after it was recovered .
Meanwhile , thousands gathered in the northeastern town of Kameshli for a funeral for the sheikh , who disappeared after leaving the Islamic Studies Center in Damascus .
The incident sparked a march last month by Kurds demanding to know Mr. al-Khaznawi 's whereabouts .
Kurdish leaders accused Syrian officials of holding the sheikh .
Authorities denied the charge .
Venezuela is blaming the United States for deteriorating relations between the two countries .
Vice President Jose Vicente Rangel responded Wednesday to charges by U.S. officials that Caracas is seeking closer military and economic ties with Iran and North Korea .
Rangel said any moves Caracas makes are responses to what he called Washington 's aggressions in the region .
A day earlier , U.S. National Intelligence Director John Negroponte criticized Venezuela for its growing relations with Iran , North Korea and Cuba .
Negroponte also accused Mr. Chavez of spending millions of dollars on what he called an extravagant foreign policy , at the expense of the Venezuelan people .
He said Mr. Chavez is investing considerable sums of money in politics in other Latin American countries .
The U.S. manufacturing sector expanded in September , suggesting the economy may overcome the effects of the two recent hurricanes .
The strength of the expansion surprised some analysts who were expecting a decline .
Monday 's data came from a survey by the Institute for Supply Managers .
Their index of manufacturing activity grew 5.8 points to a reading of 59.4 .
Any reading over 50 indicates an expanding manufacturing sector .
A separate report from the U.S. Commerce Department Monday said construction spending in the United States climbed to a record high in August .
Some experts said the increase was fueled by a renewed boom in housing .
Many analysts expect further expansion of the construction sector as residents rebuild homes and businesses wrecked by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita .
President Bush has called for civility in the congressional debate over immigration reform , saying the United States does not have to choose between being a compassionate society and a society of law .
He spoke Friday at the National Catholic Prayer Breakfast in Washington , D.C. Mr. Bush said the immigration system should not force people into the shadows of society or leave them prey to criminals .
The Senate last week began a contentious debate over immigration reform , one that looks as though it will not be finished before Congress breaks for a two-week recess , Friday .
Mr. Bush also referred to abortion , something both he and the Catholic Church oppose .
He drew applause from his audience when he said God 's hope shines on every child , born and unborn .
He added the United States is working to expand the protections of unborn children .
An Iraqi judge in the southern city of Basra has ordered the arrest of two British soldiers freed Monday in a controversial British raid on a local prison .
The charges against the soldiers include killing an Iraqi policeman and wounding another .
British officials said the warrants have no legal basis , because British troops come under British jurisdiction .
Meanwhile , in Baghdad , the leader , Abdel Aziz al-Hakim of Iraq 's largest Shi'ite political party - Supreme Council of the Islamic Revolution in Iraq endorsed the draft constitution and urged Shi'ites to vote " yes " in next month 's national referendum .
Also in Baghdad , police say a suicide car bomb exploded near an Iraqi military checkpoint killing two soldiers .
And the United Nations World Food Program warns that a lack of donors means it will not be able to feed about three million people in Iraq , more than half of them children .
U.S. officials have been allowed for the first time to see an American teacher who has been jailed in North Korea on charges of illegally entering the country .
State Department spokesman P.J. Crowley said Monday that a U.S. diplomat , two doctors and a translator were in Pyongyang from Monday through Wednesday of last week .
He said he believed the meeting with 30-year-old Aijalon Gomes took place at a hospital .
The spokesman added that the United States is continuing to seek his immediate release because of health worries .
Gomes , who had worked as an English teacher in Seoul , was arrested in January and has been sentenced to eight years of hard labor .
North Korea said last month that he had attempted suicide .
Russia and France have agreed on a six-point plan for a permanent truce in Georgia .
The plan , which awaits Georgian approval , includes provisions for what officials are calling an " international discussion " on the future status of South Ossetia and Abkhazia - the two pro-Russian breakaway regions of northern Georgia .
Russian President Dmitri Medvedev said the plan also includes : provisions for the renunciation of force by all parties , a halt to military action , unhindered access to humanitarian aid , the return of Georgian forces to their pre-conflict positions , and the continued presence of Russian peacekeepers in the two rebellious territories .
A Pakistani army official says government troops have killed 18 militants who attacked a military checkpoint near the Afghan border .
Major General Waheed Arshad says Tuesday 's violence erupted when around 40 militants fired at a military patrol in North Waziristan , in Pakistan 's northwest .
The government troops responded , backed by helicopter gunships .
Also in North Waziristan today , four soldiers were abducted by suspected militants near the town of Bannu .
And in South Waziristan , a roadside bomb wounded six paramilitary soldiers Tuesday near the Afghan border .
Violence has risen in Pakistan since security forces stormed the radical Red Mosque in the capital , Islamabad , earlier this month following a week long standoff .
More than 100 people were killed .
Indian police say the lone surviving gunman in the deadly Mumbai attacks will be formally charged in the case on Wednesday .
Police say Pakistani national Mohammed Ajmal Kasab will be charged with " waging war " in the November attacks .
Authorities say several other suspects will also be charged for allegedly helping to plan the assault .
The Mumbai attacks were carried out over a three-day period , killing more than 170 people .
The attacks have raised tensions between India and neighboring Pakistan , both nuclear-armed countries that have fought three wars .
India has blamed the attacks on a Pakistan-based militant group , Lashkar-e-Taiba and has accused Pakistan of not doing enough to bring those responsible to justice .
Pakistan has admitted that the Mumbai attacks were partly planned in Pakistan .
But Pakistan denies India 's charge that elements in Pakistan 's intelligence services may have been involved .
Afghanistan 's Health Ministry has confirmed the presence of bird flu in eastern Nangarhar province .
Health Ministry Deputy Faizullah Kakar told VOA that the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu virus was confirmed by officials Friday .
A team of doctors also suspected a human case of bird flu in the region but discovered the person was suffering from malaria .
The area has been quarantined , and the Health Ministry says officials have begun an information campaign .
Earlier this week , Afghan authorities ordered the slaughter of birds in both Nangarhar and Kunar provinces , suspecting an outbreak of bird flu .
Last year , Afghanistan discovered cases of the H5N1 virus in birds , but not humans .
The deadly strain of the bird flu virus has killed at least 160 people worldwide since 2003 .
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak has sought to defuse anger over his recent remarks about Shi'ite Muslims being more loyal to Iran than to their home countries , saying he was referring only to religion .
In an interview published Saturday in the official Akhbar al-Youm newspaper , Mr. Mubarak says he only wanted to warn of threats to Iraq 's unity and sovereignty .
Last week , Mr. Mubarak told al-Arabiya television during an interview that civil war in Iraq had already begun among Shi'ites , Sunnis , Kurds and foreign fighters from Asia .
The Egyptian president also said Iran has significant influence over Iraq 's majority Shi'ite population .
Iraqi leaders and Shi'ites across the region denounced Mr. Mubarak 's remarks and accused him of fueling sectarian tensions between Islam 's two main sects .
U.S. military officials say wanted terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi recently escaped capture by U.S. troops in Iraq , but he left behind several key pieces of intelligence .
A covert military unit tasked with finding the leader of Iraq 's insurgency says Zarqawi jumped from a moving vehicle near a checkpoint on February 20 , not far from the western city of Ramadi .
Troops gave chase and stopped the vehicle , which they say contained the terrorist leader 's laptop computer and about $ 1,00,000 in euros .
At least one Zarqawi associate was arrested .
U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld told reporters in Washington Tuesday that Zarqawi 's network may be small , but is very lethal and has carried out a large number of attacks .
The United States is offering a $ 25 million reward for Zarqawi 's capture .
Burmese state media say security forces have seized drugs , drug-making equipment and weapons near Burma 's border with China , where troops recently targeted rebel militias .
Media reports say troops found tens of thousands of stimulant narcotic pills along with weapons during a raid this week in Kokang , a mainly ethnic-Chinese region in Burma 's northeastern Shan state .
The region is known for drug smuggling .
Burma launched an offensive against the rebel Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army last month , forcing more than 30,000 people to leave their homes and cross into China 's southern Yunnan province .
Many Burmese refugees have since returned home .
Burma has been pressuring ethnic militia members to give up their arms and become border guards , ahead of the country 's national elections set for next year , the first in nearly two decades .
Palestinian witnesses say Israeli troops killed two Palestinian militants after a gunbattle near the West Bank city of Bethlehem early Friday .
The Israeli military says two Islamic Jihad members were killed after they opened fire on Israeli special forces operating in the area .
Separately , Israel carried out an air strike on a metal workshop in Gaza City .
Palestinians say three people were wounded in that attack .
The incidents occurred hours after Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas said Palestinian militant groups have agreed to suspend attacks on Israel .
Mr. Abbas says all Palestinian factions agreed to cease actions that may give others an excuse to retaliate .
Israel has carried out a nearly two-month-long Gaza offensive in an effort to stop cross-border rocket fire and to press for the release of a captured Israeli soldier .
Nearly 200 Palestinians , many of them militants , have been killed in the Israeli offensive .
Russia has called on Iran to cooperate with the International Atomic Energy Agency and clear up remaining questions about its nuclear program .
The Russian foreign ministry made the comments in a statement Saturday evening after the U.N. nuclear agency 's board found that Iran failed to comply with international nuclear safeguard agreements , but did not vote to refer the matter to the U.N. Security Council .
Russia , which is helping Iran build a nuclear power plant , was one of 12 nations that abstained from voting on Saturday 's IAEA resolution .
The United Nations has once again urged the kidnappers of one of its officials to make direct contact and called for his immediate release .
American citizen John Solecki , the head of the U.N. refugee agency ( UNHCR ) in Quetta , Pakistan , was abducted two weeks ago , on February 2 , in southwestern Baluchistan province .
A previously unknown group , the Baluchistan Liberation United Front , is threatening to kill Solecki if Pakistan 's government does not release Baluch prisoners .
On Monday , the group extended a 72-hour deadline it had given for its demands to be met .
In a statement , the United Nations appealed for his immediate and safe release and asked for the kidnappers to initiate contact with U.N. officials .
Last week , a local news agency in Pakistan broadcast what appeared to be a video of Solecki pleading for his release .
An international conference on world food security and climate change is taking place in Rome .
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon is there , along with French President Nicolas Sarkozy and Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .
Experts say global warming is having an impact on the world 's food supply and may impact it even more in the future .
VOA 's Carolyn Presutti explains .
Saudi officials say security forces have killed a suspected militant in the western city of Jeddah after the man tried to use a hand grenade against them .
Officials said the incident took place Saturday after security forces surrounded the man 's vehicle in the city 's Jamia district .
They said police found guns , ammunition , hand grenades , pipe bombs , and money in the car .
Saudi officials have blamed al-Qaida militants for a wave of violence that has claimed dozens of lives in the kingdom since May of last year .
President Bush has dispatched the State Department 's new undersecretary for public diplomacy to help shore up America 's image in the Middle East .
Karen Hughes , a long-time advisor to the president , is slated to arrive in Egypt Sunday as part of what she says is a campaign to counter a terrorist message of hate with one of freedom and hope .
Sworn in earlier this month , she says one of her primary roles is putting a human face on American policy .
During her five-day trip , which includes stops in Saudi Arabia and Turkey , she will meet with senior government officials , students and religious leaders .
Her trip comes as numerous polls indicate a surge in anti-Americanism in Europe , the Middle East and Asia .
Wall Street 's most famous stock index , the Dow Jones Industrial Average , set a record closing high on Thursday , ending above 12,000 for the first time .
However , the closing figure of 12,012 points was below the record level of 12,049 points reached during trading Wednesday .
The market was driven by investor optimism about corporate earnings after strong earnings reports from soft-drink giant Coca-Cola and the two largest U.S. providers of phone service , AT&T and Verizon .
Investors seemed to discount some new reports that indicated a weakening of the overall U.S. economy .
Both the broad market S&P 500 index and NASDAQ Composite Index also showed gains .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average is a measure of the share value of 30 top U.S. companies .
Belarus security forces say they have uncovered a plot to seize control of the government on the day of the March 19 presidential elections .
Belarus security ( KGB ) chief Stepan Sukhorenko says officials found fake exit polls from an unregistered non-governmental organization to be released by the opposition election day .
He says the polls showed opposition candidate Alexander Milinkevich beating incumbent President Alexander Lukashenko by approximately 54 percent to 41 percent .
Sukhorenko says the opposition planned to detonate explosives in a crowd of their own supporters as they protested what the opposition would insist were fraudulent official election results .
Mr. Lukashenko is running for a third term .
The United States has branded him Europe 's last dictator for suppressing human rights and free speech .
Milinkevich says he has planned a rally Thursday in Minsk without the permission of authorities .
A written statement purportedly from Taleban leader Mullah Omar mourns the death of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi , and vows to keep fighting in Afghanistan .
In the statement that surfaced Friday in Pakistan , Omar said Zarqawi 's death - described as " martyrdom " - would not weaken the resistance movement in Iraq or stop the battle in Afghanistan .
The authenticity of the statement could not be confirmed .
A wave of bomb attacks across Iraq killed at least 22 people Sunday .
Two explosions near a Shi'ite Muslim mosque in Baghdad killed 15 people and wounded 60 others .
Many of the casualties were caused by a suicide attacker who drove into a crowd of people helping victims of the first bomb , then detonated his vehicle .
A separate roadside bomb blast in eastern Baghdad Sunday killed an American soldier .
To the north , in Tikrit , two suicide bombers killed six people , including four policemen , outside a police academy .
In other developments , Pakistani officials say kidnappers have released a Pakistani embassy employee who was abducted earlier this month in Baghdad .
And , Iraq 's political leaders are continuing efforts to form a government .
Negotiations among major groups have yet to yield a Cabinet , nearly three months after the country 's historic elections , on January 30 .
Thousands of Iranians have gathered outside the former U.S. Embassy in Tehran to commemorate the 27th anniversary of the seizure of the building by Islamic radicals .
The demonstrators , mostly students , carried banners and shouted slogans proclaiming " Death to America " and Death to Israel . "
Islamic radicals stormed the U.S. Embassy on November fourth , 1979 , and held American diplomats for 444 days .
The takeover came shortly after the Islamic Revolution led by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini that toppled the Shah of Iran .
The United States and other Western nations are trying to persuade the U.N. Security Council to impose sanctions on Iran because of its nuclear program .
The West says Iran is secretly trying to develop nuclear weapons .
Tehran says its nuclear program is meant to provide electricity .
Bulgaria has criticized Libya 's Supreme Court for postponing a ruling on the appeal of five Bulgarian nurses and a Palestinian doctor sentenced to death on charges of deliberately infecting children with AIDS .
Bulgarian President Georgi Parvanov says the court 's decision to delay the ruling until January 31st prolongs the tragedy of the detainees .
Relatives of some of the infected children fought with riot police when the postponement was announced .
The court gave no reason for putting off its decision .
The defendants deny the charges , and human rights groups say Libyan police used torture to force them to confess .
Here in Washington , State Department spokesman Adam Ereli repeated U.S. calls for the defendants ' release and said establishment of normalized relations with Libya depends on Libyan progress on human rights .
Some pro-opposition demonstrators in Ukraine have ended a two-week vigil in the capital after lawmakers approved a series of electoral reforms .
Tens of thousands of people had packed Kiev 's main square following a flawed presidential runoff election on November 21 .
Opposition leader Viktor Yushchenko Wednesday , urged the masses to return home , but to look toward the court-ordered repeat election on December 26 .
Parliament Wednesday adopted the election reforms aimed at preventing fraud in the new vote .
Also included are constitutional changes that transfer some presidential powers to parliament .
The opposition has also ended a blockade on government buildings .
Some demonstrators remain in Kiev .
Meanwhile , outgoing President Leonid Kuchma has fired Prosecutor General Hennadiy Vasylyev following opposition demands for his dismissal in connection with the election crisis .
Rival presidential candidate Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych says the new electoral measures will not stop fraud .
President Bush has nominated the acting administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to be its new head .
At the White House Friday , the president asked Congress to promptly approve Steve Johnson for the position .
Mr. Johnson is a professional scientist and a career EPA employee .
Mr. Bush also asked Congress to get his proposed " Clear Skies " legislation to his desk for signing this year .
He called the proposal , which aims to dramatically reduce power plant emissions , a " common sense , pro-environment and pro-jobs " initiative .
However , environmental groups have criticized the proposed legislation , saying it would actually weaken existing air pollution regulations , known as the " Clean Air Act . "
Insurgents in Iraq killed at least 11 people Monday , including a U.S. soldier , in a series of bombings and shootings five days before a referendum on the country 's proposed new constitution .
The soldier died in a suicide bombing at a checkpoint outside Baghdad 's heavily fortified Green Zone .
Elsewhere in the capital , gunmen opened fire on a convoy carrying delegates from the Arab League .
There were reports of casualties among guards assigned to the convoy .
The attacks came as negotiators from Shi'ite and Kurdish factions that dominate parliament continued talks aimed at winning last-minute Sunni Arab backing for the draft constitution .
U.S. Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad was also attending the Baghdad talks .
Participants say the negotiators remain far apart on several key issues , including federalism provisions that Sunnis Arabs fear will give too much economic and political power to Iraq 's Shi'ites and Kurds .
A major earthquake jolted a largely empty area of the southern Atlantic Ocean Monday morning , between Antarctica and Argentina .
Seismologists around the world are on alert , but there is no sign of any tsunami triggered by the earthquake , which was measured at a magnitude of at least 7.3 .
The U.S. National Earthquake Information Center says the earthquake was centered about 10 kilometers below the ocean floor , nearly 350 kilometers southeast of the South Sandwich Islands .
It hit shortly after six hours , Universal Time .
Scientists in Japan and Finland said they measured the quake 's strength at magnitude 7.5 and 7.4 , respectively .
Britain administers the South Sandwich Islands , an uninhabited chain roughly 4,000 kilometers southeast of Buenos Aires .
Argentina also claims the islands .
Police in Sweden say one person was killed and two others wounded in two almost simultaneous explosions in central Stockholm Saturday .
The police say the first blast occurred in a car near a busy shopping street and left two people hurt .
Shortly afterward , a second explosion was heard on the same street , and police later found one person dead at the scene .
A police spokeswoman says it is unclear what caused the blasts and if they are linked .
The Associated Press quotes a rescue services spokesman as saying the car that exploded first contained gas canisters .
No other details were immediately available .
Iran 's new hard-line nuclear negotiator says Tehran will offer new proposals in its standoff with the West over its nuclear program .
Ali Larijani made the announcement Friday in Vienna , after a meeting with International Atomic Energy Agency , IAEA , chief Mohamed ElBaradei .
Mr. Larijani told a news conference that Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad will need about a month to lay out new proposals .
He said Tehran has not ruled out further talks with the European Union , even though the EU has broken off the talks to protest Iran 's resumption of nuclear fuel work that could lead to atomic weapons .
Mr. Larijani said Iran has too much power in its region to worry about U.S. and European threats to refer Iran to the U.N. Security Council .
Details of Mr. Larijani 's talks with the IAEA were not immediately known .
Germany has won third place in the World cup with a late game header , beating Uruguay 03-Feb .
Germany 's Sami Khedira scored in the 82nd minute after Uruguay 's defense failed to clear a corner from Mesut Oezil .
The goal ended Uruguay 's hopes of beating Germany for the first time in 82 years .
Thomas Mueller gave Germany the lead in the 19th minute with his fifth goal of the tournament , but Uruguayan Edinson Cavani equalized the score nine minutes later .
Uruguay took the lead early in the second half with a strike by Diego Forlan , but Marcell Jansen leveled the score for Germany within six minutes .
The championship game will be played Sunday between Spain and The Netherlands .
More than 100 Vietnamese Montagnards were who forcibly repatriated from Cambodia earlier this month may get a chance to resettle in the United States .
A spokesman for the U.S. Embassy in Hanoi says U.S. and Vietnamese officials are discussing possible options , including resettling the Montagnards in the United States .
The spokesman tells VOA that Hanoi supports the review of the case .
The Montagnards , from Vietnam 's Central Highlands were among several hundred who fled to Cambodia last year after security forces cracked down on demonstrators protesting Hanoi 's land confiscation policy and lack of religious freedom .
They were forcibly sent back to Vietnam after the United Nations denied them refugee status .
Officials in southern India say four days of torrential rains and flash floods have killed more than 130 people .
The army sent troops and helicopters into Karnataka state and neighboring Andhra Pradesh to rescue stranded families and deliver emergency food and medical supplies .
Hundreds of thousands of people have already been evacuated .
Officials say the rains destroyed thousands of homes .
Flooding has also destroyed crops , washed away roads and disrupted communication links .
Officials expect the death toll will rise as they reach areas that remain inaccessible .
Weather experts say the intense rains stem from a storm in the Bay of Bengal .
Burma is rejecting a U.S. human rights report that condemns the military-run country 's rights record .
The official New Light of Myanmar quoted Burma 's Foreign Ministry Saturday as saying that the report carries a number of unfounded and unsubstantiated allegations of human rights violations that are aimed at smearing the country 's image .
On Tuesday , the U.S. State Department released its Country Reports on Human Rights Practices for 2006 .
In it , Washington categorized Burma , as well as countries including North Korea , China and Russia , as some of the world 's worst human rights offenders .
The report accused Burma of using executions , rape , torture , random detentions , and forced relocation of entire villages , particularly of ethnic minorities , to maintain its grip on power .
The U.S report also says that surveillance of political activists continues in Burma and notes that 1,100 political prisoners remain behind bars .
Reports from Darfur say an air raid by the Sudanese army has killed at least 13 people and wounded others , including children .
Aid groups and rebel representatives say a Sudanese military plane bombed the village of Shegag Karo in North Darfur state on Sunday .
The Sudanese army has not commented .
Five years of fighting in Darfur between rebels , the Sudanese government and government-backed militias has killed an estimated 2,00,000 people and displaced some 2.5 million others .
Officials from the World Health Organization say they fear Yemen could be facing a major polio epidemic , after confirming 83 cases of the disease .
Sixty-seven of the cases were found in a single province al-Hudaidah .
Meanwhile , health officials are investigating another 411 suspected cases across the country .
A first round of vaccinations was completed last month , and officials say another round is planned .
Yemen is one of 16 previously polio-free countries that have reported new cases of the disease since 2003 .
The water-borne disease , which mostly strikes the young , attacks the nervous system and can cause paralysis and sometimes death .
Reports from Syria say a small aircraft apparently used by the military has crashed near Damascus , killing three people on board .
Witnesses said the plane appeared to be on a training flight Sunday when it came down .
There was no immediate confirmation of the incident from Syrian officials .
The plane crash happened at a time of heightened tension between Syria and Israel , which carried out an air strike deep inside Syrian territory on September 6 .
Neither country has given much information about the target of the Israeli raid .
The Olympic Flame rode in style Saturday in a Ferrari as the torch continued its trek toward Turin for the Winter Games .
Luca Badoer , the test driver for Ferrari 's Formula One team , received the flame from a torchbearer and drove it slowly through the company 's headquarters in a red Ferrari F-430 Spider .
From Maranello , the torch moved towards Reggio Emilia and Parma , where the day 's travel ended .
The torch moves east toward Venice Sunday and will continue traveling through Italy until it ignites the Olympic Cauldron at the Opening Ceremonies February 10th in Turin .
The U.S. space agency NASA says its Phoenix probe has touched the surface of the planet Mars with its robot arm .
Officials said Sunday that operators were testing the arm , which will be used to scoop up samples of Martian soil and ice for testing in the lander 's onboard laboratory .
NASA released a photograph of the disturbed soil where the arm touched the ground , leaving behind a footprint-shaped impression .
A camera attached to the arm also took photographs of the area beneath the lander .
The Phoenix probe arrived on Mars a week ago .
It is on a three-month mission to analyze samples of Martian soil and subsurface ice , to study the history of water on Mars and to determine whether the planet could support life .
Phoenix was launched last August and traveled 679 million kilometers to reach Mars .
The government of Venezuela says it has signed an agreement to buy an American company 's interest in Venezuela 's largest telecommunications company .
On Monday Venezuelan officials announced the agreement to purchase 28 percent of CANTV from Verizon , a telecommunications company based in the United States .
In early January , President Hugo Chavez said Venezuela should regain control of strategic sectors of its economy .
He asked the national assembly to grant him special powers to nationalize businesses .
Last week , Venezuela agreed to buy a controlling stake in the country 's largest private electric company .
On February 2 , Mr. Chavez gave foreign oil companies three months to surrender control of their operations in Venezuela .
The U.S. has criticized the nationalization plan .
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said last week President Chavez is destroying his country , economically and politically .
Turkish security officials say one soldier and 12 Kurdish rebels were killed in a clash in eastern Turkey .
They say the fighting erupted in Tunceli province during a military offensive against the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party , or PKK .
Clashes usually intensify during this time of year , as melting snow allows the Kurdish rebels to move more freely .
Last week , Turkey 's top military official , General Yasar Buyukanit , called for an incursion into Iraq to pursue Kurdish rebels based there .
The PKK announced a unilateral ceasefire in October , but Turkey rejected it .
Kurdish rebels have been fighting Turkey for autonomy since 1984 .
The conflict has claimed more than 37,000 lives .
The U.S. considers the PKK a terrorist organization .
Officials in Japan say the death toll from a typhoon that swept across the island-nation now stands at 75 .
Authorities say 15 people are still missing in the aftermath of Typhoon Tokage , which battered Japan earlier this week .
Rescue crews are searching through flooded towns and the rubble of collapsed homes .
Tokage has since moved out to sea east of Japan .
It is the latest in a record number of typhoons to hit Japan this year .
Japan says the number of casualties from Tokage was the worst from a typhoon since 1979 , when 115 people died or went missing from a similar storm .
Crude oil prices continued their surge Thursday hitting a new record high of nearly $ 106 a barrel .
Prices for crude for future delivery went as high as $ 105.97 before easing slightly .
The latest record high for oil follows another record low for the dollar compared to the euro .
Dollar-priced raw materials like oil gain from the weak greenback because the fall in the dollar makes them cheaper for buyers using other , stronger currencies .
The price spike is also related to Wednesday 's decision by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to hold oil production steady rather than raise output as requested by Washington .
Some oil-importing nations say more oil would help ease prices , but OPEC officials say the markets are well-supplied with crude .
Church bells have begun tolling across Rome and throughout Italy , signaling the death of Pope John Paul II .
As news of his death spread , Roman Catholics around the world began mourning and offering prayers for the death of the spiritual leader of the 1.1 billion-member Roman Catholic Church .
In his native Poland , people in the pope 's hometown of Wadowice fell to their knees and wept at the end of a special Mass in the church where he worshipped as a boy .
Special masses are being held around the world , including Latin America , home to nearly half of the world 's Roman Catholics .
U.S. National Intelligence Director John Negroponte has singled out Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez for criticism during a hearing on homeland security .
Negroponte told a Senate committee Tuesday that Mr. Chavez is seeking closer military and economic ties with Iran and North Korea .
Negroponte also said Mr. Chavez is expected to deepen his relationship with Fidel Castro , president of communist Cuba and an outspoken critic of President Bush .
He added that Venezuela has recently scaled back its counternarcotics cooperation with the United States .
Negroponte also accused Mr. Chavez of spending millions of dollars on what he termed an extravagant foreign policy , at the expense of the Venezuelan people .
He said Mr. Chavez is investing considerable sums of money in politics in other Latin American countries .
Namibia has sworn in a new parliament , as President Sam Nujoma readies to step down after 15 years in office .
Seventy-two lawmakers took the oath of office in Windhoek Sunday and elected former prime minister Theo Ben Gurirab as the new speaker of parliament .
The ruling South West Africa People 's Organization ( SWAPO ) party controls 55 seats in the legislature , following a victory in November elections .
Monday , President Nujoma will hand over power to Hifikepunye Pohamba , becoming Namibia 's second head of state since independence from apartheid-era South Africa .
Mr. Pohamba has vowed to maintain many of the economic policies of Mr. Nujoma and advance a land redistribution program .
Iran 's state-run television says President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has named a new head of the country 's Supreme National Security Council , the agency that oversees Iran 's nuclear policy .
The new nuclear chief , Ali Larijani , has served as an aide to Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and is known as a hardline conservative .
He is also a former head of Iranian state radio and television .
Mr. Larijani 's appointment comes as Iran faces intense pressure to stop its nuclear activities or face the possibility of international sanctions .
Some observers are concerned that he will take a tougher stance on Iran 's nuclear ambitions Iran resumed uranium conversion last week after rejecting a European Union proposal offering economic and political incentives in exchange for suspending nuclear fuel processing .
Iran insists its nuclear program is solely for peaceful purposes .
Israeli health authorities say they have found the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu in dead chickens at a kindergarten petting zoo .
The Israeli Agriculture Ministry says 18 chickens were found dead Thursday at the kindergarten in the northern town of Binyamina .
The ministry says tests later confirmed they were infected with the H5N1 virus that is potentially lethal to humans .
Israeli authorities alerted hospitals in the area to look out for any children or adults with high fever , the most common symptom associated with the virus .
Authorities also are checking for other bird flu outbreaks within a 10-kilometer radius of the kindergarten .
Israel culled more than one million chickens and turkeys in March 2006 after the H5N1 virus infected poultry at several communal farms .
Migratory birds are thought to have spread the virus from Asia to the Middle East and Europe .
A series of attacks by suspected Taleban insurgents has left eleven Afghans dead and an election candidate seriously wounded .
Three policemen guarding a convoy transporting supplies to U.S. bases were killed late Saturday during an ambush in the southern province Zabul .
Another policeman was killed and two were wounded early Sunday in an attack on a police checkpoint on the main highway linking the southern city of Kandahar with Kabul .
Also Sunday , in the southern Helmand province , suspected rebels attacked a district police chief , killing him , three of his bodyguards and his son .
Two militants were also killed when the police returned fire .
Hours later , in the same province , a bomb blast seriously wounded a candidate in the September 18 parliamentary elections .
The U.S. Defense Department says 52 detainees at the U.S. military prison in Guantanamo Bay , Cuba , are on a hunger strike to protest their continued detention .
In a statement Thursday , Pentagon officials said the hunger strike began three days ago and appears to be temporary .
The Pentagon says some detainees have abandoned the strike .
But , the Los Angeles Times reported Thursday that two prisoners recently released from the facility say there are 180 prisoners on hunger strike , demanding better conditions and more information on their cases .
Many of the some-500 terrorism suspects at Guantanamo have been held for more than two years without charge .
This week , the Pentagon said it was resuming a series of military trials for some prisoners .
Reports from southern China 's Guangdong province say armed police have sealed off a village after opening fire on a group of protesters and killing at least two people this week .
Witnesses say police fired into a crowd late Tuesday in Dongzhou village , where at least 1,000 people were protesting inadequate compensation for land taken for the construction of a power plant .
Local residents are quoted by Reuters and the French News agency as saying Chinese authorities have surrounded the village and are not allowing them to leave .
The deputy Asia Director for Amnesty International Catherine Baber has described the reports from Guangdong as " chilling , " and called for an immediate independent investigation .
The Chinese government has not commented on the matter .
The Arab League 's chief says the 22-member organization will soon open an office in Iraq .
Amr Moussa made the pledge during a joint news conference Thursday in Baghdad alongside Iraqi Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari .
Mr. al-Jaafari echoed criticism of the League for not establishing a presence sooner in Iraq , saying he had hoped that the League would have had a " greater role " there earlier .
The two leaders met against a backdrop of new violence , with at least six Iraqis killed in attacks across the country .
Meanwhile , the Arab world 's media reacted with mixed emotions to the start Wednesday of former Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein 's trial on charges of killing 143 of his countrymen .
Some papers welcomed the trial , but others said it could fuel ethnic and sectarian tensions in Iraq .
Indonesia has begun withdrawing government forces from Aceh province , the first major step in a new peace agreement between the government and separatist rebels to end a three-decade conflict .
Military officials say more than 1,200 soldiers shipped out Monday as part of the peace deal signed last week in Finland .
The agreement is intended to end 29 years of bloodshed between the Indonesian government and Free Aceh Movement rebels costing 15,000 lives .
The peace deal calls for Indonesia to pull out non-local army and police forces , and for rebels to demobilize .
Indonesia will grant amnesty to rebels , except those jailed for common crimes .
Aceh will be allowed to manage its own natural resources and keep 70 percent of revenues .
The province will also be allowed to have local political representation .
Iran 's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad says his country will produce nuclear fuel on an industrial scale soon .
Speaking in a provincial city Wednesday , Mr. Ahmadinejad did not specify when .
He said Tehran will not be intimidated by what he called bullying powers who want to deprive Iran of its nuclear ambitions .
In December , the U.N. Security Council passed economic sanctions against Iran for its controversial nuclear enrichment program .
Since then , Mr. Ahmadinejad has called the UN sanctions " invalid , " insisting that Iran will continue its program .
Iran 's top nuclear negotiator said Tehran would begin working on installing 3,000 uranium-enriching centrifuges at a plant in Natanz .
The U.S. and its Western allies believe Iran is developing nuclear technology for weapons , a charge Tehran denies .
Producing nuclear fuel that could be used in a power plant would be another step in mastering the nuclear fuel cycle .
Witnesses say at least 15 people have been killed in two days of ongoing clashes between rival Islamist groups in central Somalia .
Clashes in the town of Wabho mainly involved fighters from the al-Shabab group and its rival the , Ahlu Sunna Wajama .
Residents say many civilians have been injured since the violence erupted Saturday .
Reports say the pro-government Ahlu Sunna Wajama reportedly attacked the Shabab-held village .
The two sides have fought repeatedly for control over the region .
Venezuela 's President Hugo Chavez is asking the National Assembly to grant him special powers over the country 's electrical and telecommunications industries .
In a televised speech , Mr. Chavez said he would nationalize some electricial companies and the country 's largest telecommunications company , CANTV .
The leftist leader promised to take a more radical turn toward socialism after he was re-elected by a wide margin last month .
He will begin a second six-year term as president on Wednesday .
Mr. Chavez has said he hopes to merge all the political parties supporting him into one party .
He also wants to re-write the constitution .
Another Bosnian Serb military figure accused of war crimes in the former Yugoslavia is surrendering to the U.N. tribunal in the Hague .
Gojko Jankovic , a former paramilitary leader who has been a fugitive for more than five years , turned himself in to Bosnian Serb authorities Sunday in the town of Banja Luka .
He is expected to be transferred to The Hague on Monday .
The U.N. tribunal says that during the violence of the 1990s , soldiers under Mr. Jankovic 's command arrested a group of women in the town of Foca and brutally abused and raped them during interrogations .
Mr. Jankovic is the sixth Bosnian Serb to surrender to the U.N. court in less than two months .
However , the two main targets of the long-running war-crimes prosecution - former Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic and his military commander , Ratko Mladic - remain at large .
The public memorial for the late United States Chief Justice William Rehnquist is under way at the Supreme Court building in Washington .
Mr. Rehnquist died of cancer Saturday at the age of 80 .
President Bush paid his respects to the late chief justice Tuesday , pausing for a moment of silence beside his flag-draped coffin in the Great Hall of the high court .
The public memorial continues until noon Wednesday , when he will be buried in a private ceremony at Arlington National Cemetery .
The conservative chief justice was first appointed to the nine-member court by President Nixon in 1972 .
President Reagan appointed him chief justice 14 years later , in 1986 .
U.S. Supreme Court justices are appointed for life-long terms .
President Bush has nominated federal appeals court judge John Roberts to be the next chief justice .
Senate confirmation hearings for Mr. Roberts are scheduled to begin Monday .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says the European Union and the United States disagree on whether to lift the embargo on arms sales to China .
In a television interview broadcast by the BBC on Sunday , Ms. Rice said lifting the ban could upset the military balance in East Asia , and called it a serious concern .
She added that it could also send the wrong signal to China on human rights .
The European Union is considering the resumption of weapons sales , but says China would have to respect human rights and regional stability .
Arms sales were banned in 1989 following China 's Tiananmen Square crackdown .
U.S. President George Bush is encouraging all Americans to vote in national elections Tuesday and prove to the world that self-government can endure .
During his weekly radio address Saturday , Mr. Bush said U.S. elections serve as a model , especially to young democracies such at Georgia , Ukraine , Afghanistan and Iraq .
The president said Americans have demonstrated that for two centuries a free people have been able to choose their own leaders .
He said the nation has flourished because of its commitment to trusting the wisdom of the people .
President Bush also called on voters to recall the sacrifices made by generations of Americans in uniform to preserve America 's way of life .
The U.S. military in Iraq says it is releasing more than 400 Iraqi detainees , including five women prisoners .
A military statement says the prisoners are being freed Thursday and Friday , after reviews of their cases determined there was no reason to keep holding them .
Iraqi and U.S. officials have stressed the move has nothing to do with American journalist Jill Carroll , who was kidnapped earlier this month .
Her kidnappers threatened to kill her by last Friday unless all Iraqi women detainees were released .
The deadline passed with no word on her fate .
Separately , the U.S. military says one American soldier was killed and another wounded in a roadside bomb blast south of Baghdad Wednesday .
A similar bomb blast north of the capital killed three Iraqi soldiers and wounded four others .
Greenland , the world 's largest island , is about 81 % ice capped .
Vikings reached the island in the 10th century from Iceland ; Danish colonization began in the 18th century , and Greenland was made an integral part of Denmark in 1953 .
It joined the European Community ( now the EU ) with Denmark in 1973 but withdrew in 1985 over a dispute centered on stringent fishing quotas .
Greenland was granted self-government in 1979 by the Danish parliament ; the law went into effect the following year .
Greenland voted in favor of increased self-rule in November 2008 and acquired greater responsibility for internal affairs in June 2009 .
Denmark , however , continues to exercise control of Greenland 's foreign affairs , security , and financial policy in consultation with Greenland 's Home Rule Government .
After almost four decades under US administration as the easternmost part of the UN Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands , the Marshall Islands attained independence in 1986 under a Compact of Free Association .
Compensation claims continue as a result of US nuclear testing on some of the atolls between 1947 and 1962 .
The Marshall Islands hosts the US Army Kwajalein Atoll ( USAKA ) Reagan Missile Test Site , a key installation in the US missile defense network .
Rivalry between French and Italian interests in Tunisia culminated in a French invasion in 1881 and the creation of a protectorate .
Agitation for independence in the decades following World War I was finally successful in getting the French to recognize Tunisia as an independent state in 1956 .
The country 's first president , Habib BOURGUIBA , established a strict one-party state .
He dominated the country for 31 years , repressing Islamic fundamentalism and establishing rights for women unmatched by any other Arab nation .
In November 1987 , BOURGUIBA was removed from office and replaced by Zine el Abidine BEN ALI in a bloodless coup .
Street protests that began in Tunis in December 2010 over high unemployment , corruption , widespread poverty , and high food prices escalated in January 2011 , culminating in rioting that led to hundreds of deaths .
On 14 January 2011 , the same day BEN ALI dismissed the government , he fled the country , and by late January 2011 , Prime Minister Mohamed GHANNOUCHI announced the formation of a " national unity government " with the head of the Chamber of Deputies , Fouad M'BAZAA , as the interim president .
A remote country of 33 scattered coral atolls , Kiribati has few natural resources and is one of the least developed Pacific Islands .
Commercially viable phosphate deposits were exhausted at the time of independence from the UK in 1979 .
Copra and fish now represent the bulk of production and exports .
The economy has fluctuated widely in recent years .
Economic development is constrained by a shortage of skilled workers , weak infrastructure , and remoteness from international markets .
Tourism provides more than one-fifth of GDP .
Private sector initiatives and a financial sector are in the early stages of development .
Foreign financial aid from the EU , UK , US , Japan , Australia , New Zealand , Canada , UN agencies , and Taiwan accounts for 20-25 % of GDP .
Remittances from seamen on merchant ships abroad account for more than $ 5 million each year .
Kiribati receives around $ 15 million annually for the government budget from an Australian trust fund .
" I SEE quite a number of rings on your tail , " said an Alderman to a Raccoon that he met in a zoological garden .
" Yes , " replied the Raccoon , " and I hear quite a number of tales on your ring . "
The Alderman , being of a sensitive , retiring disposition , shrank from further comparison , and , strolling to another part of the garden , stole the camel .
A DOE blind in one eye was accustomed to graze as near to the edge of the cliff as she possibly could , in the hope of securing her greater safety .
She turned her sound eye towards the land that she might get the earliest tidings of the approach of hunter or hound , and her injured eye towards the sea , from whence she entertained no anticipation of danger .
Some boatmen sailing by saw her , and taking a successful aim , mortally wounded her .
Yielding up her last breath , she gasped forth this lament :
" O wretched creature that I am ! to take such precaution against the land , and after all to find this seashore , to which I had come for safety , so much more perilous . "
St. Nicholas is the main Claus .
His wife is a relative Claus .
His children are dependent Clauses .
Their Dutch uncle is a restrictive Claus .
As a group , they 're all renoun Clauses .
Santa 's elves are subordinate Clauses .
We 're sorry .
You have reached an imaginary number .
Please rotate your phone 90 degrees and try again .
Police in Israel say they are deciding whether to press charges against two of Leonardo DiCaprio 's bodyguards .
The men last week scuffled with photographers , injuring three , as the actor visited the Western Wall in Jerusalem .
The photographers claim the bodyguards attacked them as DiCaprio climbed into a van , while the actor 's publicist blames an overaggressive press corps .
Israeli police say they do n't know when a decision to press charges will appear .
A published report says the Bush administration has urged the United Nations Security Council to extend the mandate of the U.S.-led multinational forces in Iraq for at least a year after Iraqis elect their first government on December 15 .
Citing diplomatic sources , The Washington Post says the move is aimed at sparing the new Baghdad government the politically challenging issue of explicitly approving the continued presence of foreign forces .
According to the Post , the request was presented Monday , after the United States addressed objections from France and Russia , which prefer a six-month extension of the mandate that expires next month .
Washington agreed that the Council would review the mandate after six months .
In another development , the Defense Department Monday announced plans for a fresh contingent of 92,000 troops to rotate into Iraq , starting by the middle of next year .
The current level of U.S. forces in Iraq is about 1,60,000 troops .
About 3,000 Falun Gong members have staged a protest in Taiwan 's capital against persecution of the group in China .
The protesters linked hands Saturday in Taipei to form what they called a " Great Wall of Justice , " holding photos and paintings depicting alleged torture .
Chang Ching-hsi , chairman of the group 's Taiwan chapter , said that since Beijing outlawed the Falun Gong in mid-1999 , at least 1,247 followers have been tortured to death .
Lawyers for Falun Gong have filed suits in 28 countries against Chinese officials on a variety of charges .
Beijing denies it mistreats Falun Gong members .
In Egypt , the final round of legislative elections has been marred by violence and police interference , after Islamist candidates made large gains in the previous two rounds of voting .
In the town of Baltim , near Kafr el-Sheikh , human rights and medical officials say one opposition supporter was killed and dozens injured in clashes with police .
VOA 's correspondent , who is the northeastern town of Zigazag Thursday , reports riot police have blocked polling stations and intimidated voters in the town , which is a stronghold of the Muslim Brotherhood .
Police interference has also been reported in other constituencies where opposition candidates have strong support .
This final phase of voting will decide 136 of parliament 's 444 elected seats .
President Hosni Mubarak will appoint the remaining 10 seats .
Candidates endorsed by the Muslim Brotherhood have won 76 seats so far , up from 15 seats in the outgoing assembly .
Two former close associates of former Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic have pleaded not guilty at the U.N. war crimes tribunal to charges tied to the Srebrenica massacre .
Prosecutors at The Hague tribunal had expanded the charges against Jovica Stanisic and his deputy Franco Simatovic in January .
This followed the discovery of a videotape showing six members of a Serbian paramilitary group ( the Scorpions ) executing Muslims captured in Srebrenica .
Prosecutors say the two men , as top state security officials , were in charge of the paramilitary units .
Meanwhile , in Sarajevo , former Bosnian Serb military police commander Gojko Jankovic pleaded innocent to charges of war crimes relating to the imprisonment of Muslim men and sexual abuse of Muslim women in the town of Foca .
Jankovic is the second war crimes suspect to be transferred from The Hague Tribunal to Bosnia 's war crimes court .
Pope Benedict is calling individuals , international organizations and world governments to work together for peace in the New Year .
Speaking to Roman Catholic faithful at St. Peter 's Basilica in Vatican City where he celebrated the first New Year 's Mass of his papacy Sunday , the pontiff warned that the world faces an " insidious " threat to peace from " terrorism , nihilism and fanatic fundamentalism . "
The Catholic Church marks January 1 each year as a World Day of Peace .
Pope Benedict called on the United Nations to promote justice , solidarity , and peace in a world that seems less dedicated to those values than to economic forces - what he called " the huge phenomenon of globalization . "
An explosion has killed at least seven people at a Christian church in Alexandria , Egypt , where worshippers had gathered to celebrate mass on New Year 's Eve .
Egypt 's Interior Ministry said in a statement early Saturday that seven people were killed and 24 wounded in the blast , which occurred about a half-hour after midnight on New Year 's Day .
The explosion came from a car parked in front of the church .
It was not clear whether the bomb had been inside the car or under it .
?Al-Qaida 's affiliate in Iraq claimed responsibility for the bomb , saying it was retaliation for two Egyptian Christian women who converted to Islam .
Al-Qaida says the women are being held hostage by the Christians for having converted .
Some Egyptian Christians - known as Copts - are protesting at the site of the explosion .
Police in France say urban violence has fallen to what they call normal levels after three weeks of some of the country 's worst civil unrest in decades .
Police said about 100 vehicles were torched across the country on Wednesday night , which they said was the nightly average prior to the riots .
At the peak of the unrest , rioters of mostly North African origin burned more than 1,000 vehicles each night .
Police are still deployed in significant numbers , and a state of emergency remains in place .
The violence began late last month when two teenagers of North African origin accidentally electrocuted themselves while hiding from police in a power station near Paris .
France 's government has promised to tackle what it says are the real causes of the violence , including unemployment and racism .
Venezuela 's state-run oil company , PDVSA , says it plans to cut production costs by 40 percent to make up for falling crude oil prices amid the global financial crisis .
Company president Rafael Ramirez said in a radio interview that cost-cutting measures will include renegotiating deals with contractors that were reached when prices climbed to record high levels last year .
Ramirez , who is also the country 's energy and oil minister , said Venezuela will call on fellow OPEC members at talks later this month ( in Austria ) to curb production to force prices up to $ 70 per barrel .
Oil has been trading at about $ 40 per barrel in New York .
Venezuela is a major oil producer and has seen the price of its oil plunge sharply to $ 36.8 per barrel in recent days .
Crude oil prices peaked at a record $ 147 per barrel last July .
The U.S. military says an American soldier was killed in a roadside bomb blast in western Iraq Tuesday .
Iraqis stand on top of the rubble of a destroyed home in Karabila , at the end of a US forces ' operation
In a separate statement , the military says U.S. Marines and Iraqi security forces are continuing operations in and around the city of Karabilah in western Anbar province , where several car bombs were discovered Monday .
On Monday , insurgents carried out at least six car bomb attacks across Iraq , killing at least 23 people .
The deadliest attack occurred in the Kurdish city of Arbil , where a suicide bomber dressed as a policeman drove into a crowd of Iraqi police recruits , killing 13 of them and wounding 100 others .
At least 10 other people were killed in separate attacks in Baghdad and the oil city of Kirkuk , north of the capital .
Officials of the U.S. space agency NASA have said inspections of the shuttle Atlantis have not yet found any damage to the orbiter 's heat shields .
Astronauts on Sunday used cameras and instruments attached to the shuttle 's remote-control boom to inspect its nose cone and the leading edge of its wings .
While engineers are still working to interpret the data collected , shuttle flight director Paul Dye said he has not seen a single problem with the vehicle .
During its Saturday launch , NASA officials said the shuttle 's external fuel tank appeared to shed two pieces of foam insulation .
In 2003 , damage caused by loosened insulation was blamed for the disintegration of the Shuttle Columbia , killing seven astronauts .
Atlantis is on a construction mission to the International Space Station .
Astronauts will conduct three spacewalks to attach a new set of solar energy panels to generate power for the space station .
Britain 's attorney-general says seven British soldiers will stand trial for allegedly murdering a civilian in southern Iraq in 2003 .
Attorney-General Peter Goldsmith says Thursday the incident occurred on a road in al-U'Zayra in May , 2003 .
Officials say the men also face charges of violent disorder .
They gave no other details , or mentioned a date for the proceedings .
Britain currently has about 9,000 troops deployed in southern Iraq .
Since the U.S.-led invasion almost two years ago , British officials have launched more than 130 investigations into incidents ranging from road traffic accidents to deaths of Iraqis in custody .
Separately , British military prosecutors have dropped the remaining charge against one of three soldiers accused of mistreating Iraqi civilians in May , 2003 , near the southern city of Basra .
The soldier , Lance Corporal Darren Larkin , earlier had pleaded guilty to assaulting the Iraqi .
Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi has called on North Korea to return to six-party talks on Pyongyang 's nuclear ambitions .
Mr. Koizumi told reporters that North Korea needs to understand that it is in its own best interests to give up all nuclear programs .
North Korea 's main state-run newspaper said Tuesday that six-nation talks could resume if the United States changed what it called a " hostile policy " against Pyongyang .
The two Koreas , the United States , China , Russia and Japan have held three rounds of talks in Beijing on Pyongyang 's nuclear ambitions .
North Korea refused to attend a fourth round of talks planned for September because , experts believe , it was awaiting the outcome of the U.S. presidential election .
The Iraqi government says a Moroccan militant wanted in connection with the Casablanca bombings in Morocco in 2003 , is also a suspect in a bombing in Iraq that killed 100 people .
Iraq 's government has offered an unspecified reward for the capture of Mohsen Khayber , also known as Abdul Rahim .
He is wanted in connection with a triple car bombing on September 29 in the town of Balad , north of Baghdad .
In other developments , al-Qaida in Iraq said on its website that it would determine the fate of two kidnapped Moroccan embassy employees in a trial .
The two men disappeared October 20 while driving from Jordan to Baghdad .
Also Tuesday , the U.S. military says it released 500 low-level detainees from Abu Ghraib prison .
They were freed ahead of this week 's Eid al-Fitr holiday , which marks the end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is to travel to Britain next week for talks on Afghanistan , Iraq , Iran , Kenya and other issues .
State Department spokesman Sean McCormack says Rice is to meet with British Prime Minister Gordon Brown and British Foreign Secretary David Miliband .
The spokesman says Rice is to depart for the trip Tuesday .
The United States , South Korea and Russia have urged North Korea to return to six-party talks on its nuclear ambitions by the end of this year .
The call was made Wednesday in Seoul following talks between U.S. Assistant Secretary of State James Kelly and his South Korean and Russian counterparts .
South Korean Deputy Foreign Minister Lee Soo-hyuck said new talks must take place this year , regardless of format .
The two Koreas , the United States , China , Japan and Russia have held three rounds of talks in Beijing on Pyongyang 's nuclear ambitions , with little progress made .
A fourth round was scheduled for September , but North Korea refused to attend , saying the talks were worthless .
Kyrgyzstan 's interim security chief and former opposition leader Felix Kulov has resigned from his newly-appointed position , saying the situation in the country has stabilized .
Mr. Kulov told lawmakers Wednesday he was leaving his post because order has been restored and an interim government is in place .
He was named security chief last week and tasked with getting the looting and mass disorder in the capital , Bishkek , under control following the ouster of President Askar Akayev .
Mr. Kulov also said Kyrgyzstan 's interim authorities are prepared to provide security guarantees for the ousted leader if he returns to Bishkek and formally resigns .
Mr. Akayev fled the country after thousands of opposition protesters stormed the presidential palace , protesting legislative elections they say were rigged .
The U.S. military says 27 detainees who died in U.S. custody in Afghanistan and Iraq between 2002 and 2004 were the victims of homicide or suspected homicide .
In the report Friday , the Army Criminal Investigation Command said Army commanders have decided not to pursue charges against 17 American soldiers implicated in the deaths of three of the detainees .
The military says those cases were dropped because of lack of evidence , or soldiers used justified force or were not aware of the rules of engagement .
A number of soldiers are facing charges in the other detainee deaths .
Human rights groups have expressed outrage over mistreatment of detainees .
The military says it takes the deaths seriously .
One Afghan child was killed and four people were wounded Saturday in a blast targeting a Canadian convoy in southern Afghanistan .
Authorities say a vehicle rigged with explosives blew up on the side of a highway in Kandahar province as the military convoy passed .
Earlier , police had reported that a suicide bomber was involved in the attack .
A NATO statement said two other children , one Afghan adult and a NATO soldier were wounded in the blast .
Officials say the wounded Afghans were members of the same family .
The attack occurred on the highway that serves as the main link between western Afghanistan and Kandahar .
A senior U.S. diplomat visiting Lebanon is warning that those promoting violence and political instability in the country will be held directly accountable .
Deputy Assistant Secretary of State David Satterfield spoke Thursday in Beirut , at the start of a mission aimed at gaining a Syrian timetable for pulling its troops from Lebanon .
The U.S. envoy also criticized Iran and Syria for their alleged attempts to destabilize the country .
The U.S. visit is part of a concerted push by Washington , the United Nations and the European Union to force Syria to provide a timetable for the full withdrawal of all its forces from Lebanon .
Damascus has pulled 4,000 troops since mass anti-Syrian protests erupted after last month 's assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Syria says planning is under way to withdraw its remaining 10,000 troops in the near future .
A civic group in Seoul has released a list of 617 political prisoners held by North Korea in detention camps .
The group , the Democracy Network Against North Korean Gulag , said the list released Friday is based on the accounts of North Korean defectors .
A number of prominent personalities are said to be detained by the communist North on political charges , including Pyongyang 's former ambassador to Libya , Kim Dae Hun , and the former envoy to Indonesia , Ri Won Jo .
Mr. Ri reportedly was sent to a detention camp for criticizing North Korea during talks with his subordinates , while Mr. Kim was punished after a family member defected to South Korea .
North Korean is believed to hold tens of thousands of people in its network of detention camps , where forced labor and torture are common practices .
The chief judge who resigned from the Saddam Hussein trial is expected to be replaced by a Shi'ite judge currently serving on the panel .
Saad al-Hamash reportedly will become interim chief judge until a permanent replacement is named .
He is the most senior of the other four justices on the tribunal .
He is also a member of the Shi'ite majority that was oppressed during Saddam 's regime .
Outgoing presiding judge Rizgar Mohammed Amin quit last week under heavy criticism for not being firm enough in his handling of the former dictator .
The trial of Saddam Hussein and seven others is set to resume a week from January 24 .
They are accused of killing more than 140 Shi'ite villagers 23 years ago , following a failed assassination attempt against the Iraqi leader .
The world 's largest drug company has agreed to pay $ 2.3 billion in fines and penalties for marketing some drugs improperly .
The U.S. Justice Department says the fine is the largest ever levied in a health care fraud case .
The case involves several drugs , including " Bextra . "
It was approved for arthritis , but the company improperly tried to get doctors to use it for other kinds of pain .
Bextra was taken off the market because of safety concerns .
It is legal for physicians to prescribe drugs for uses that have not been officially approved , but it is not legal for a drug company to push doctors to write such prescriptions .
It also violates rules to pay kickbacks to encourage doctors to choose a particular drug .
Officials say money from the fines will go to various health and medical programs run by the government .
The United States has imposed sanctions on Iran 's maritime carrier and its affiliates for allegedly supporting Iran 's nuclear and missile programs .
The designation against the Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines and 18 affiliates means their assets under U.S. jurisdiction will be frozen .
Americans also are prohibited from doing business with the carrier and affiliates .
The United States announced the designation Wednesday , alleging the carrier and affiliates provided logistical support to Iran 's Ministry of Defense and Armed Forces Logistics .
The United States has accused Iran of working to produce nuclear weapons .
Iran has rejected the allegation , saying its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes only .
The International Labor Organization says the world financial crisis could lead to record global unemployment with 20 million more people out of work by the end of next year .
The ILO warned Monday that global unemployment could rise to 210 million by late 2009 .
This would be the first time in history that the number of jobless people around the world rose above 200 million .
ILO Director-General Juan Somavia urged governments to take prompt and coordinated actions to avoid a social crisis .
He said world leaders need to focus on how the financial crisis is hurting people , not just financial institutions .
The Geneva-based U.N. agency says people working in the construction , real estate and auto industries will be hardest hit .
World oil prices hit their highest level since the end of November Tuesday amid falling temperatures , rising demand , and production cuts .
The price for crude oil for future delivery went above $ 49 a barrel in New York .
Analysts say colder-than-usual weather in portions of the United States is raising concerns about supplies in the world 's largest heating oil market .
The International Energy Agency added to supply concerns with a forecast that world oil demand will grow this year .
Meantime , the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries has cut its oil output to keep prices from falling .
OPEC , which pumps about one-third of the world 's oil , is scheduled to meet again at the end of this month to consider oil prices and supplies .
Cuban president Fidel Castro has called for a march outside the U.S. mission in Havana to protest new electronic signs that have been installed by the Americans .
Mr. Castro made the appeal Sunday on Cuban television .
He complained about large electronic signs that have been spelling out messages to passersby .
The signs have displayed human rights sayings of the Reverend Martin Luther King , Junior .
They have also quoted parts of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights that Cuba signed .
Mr. Castro said the Americans have no authority on the subject of human rights .
He also accused the U.S. of protecting Posada Carriles , a Cuban exile wanted for a 1976 airliner bombing .
Lawmakers in a largely ethnic Russian region of eastern Ukraine have scheduled a December vote on autonomy , escalating political tensions in a nation split over last week 's presidential election .
The Donetsk regional council voted overwhelmingly Sunday in favor of a referendum it says is aimed at determining the region 's status .
Other eastern regions are making similar threats if their preferred candidate , Prime Minister Victor Yanukovych , does not become president .
Ukraine 's supreme court plans to rule Monday on whether the government conducted a free and fair presidential runoff election earlier this month .
Supporters of opposition candidate Victor Yushchenko have accused the government of massive fraud , and protesters have packed the streets of Kiev and other cities in the western part of the country , where Ukrainian nationalists hold power .
One opposition leader Sunday gave the outgoing president , Leonid Kuchma , 24 hours to fire Mr. Yanukovych as prime minister .
Pakistan military officials say fighting in a remote tribal area near the country 's border with Afghanistan has killed 23 Islamic militants and seven Pakistani troops .
A military official says the fighting erupted Monday when militants attacked a paramilitary convoy in the Mohmand tribal district .
The attack comes just days after Pakistani troops killed a number of militants in a tribal area of nearby South Waziristan as part of an effort to target Taliban and al-Qaida safe havens in the region .
Last Friday , U.S. Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Michael Mullen expressed concern about the presence of al-Qaida safe havens in Pakistan .
Admiral Mullen said militants are not only launching attacks in neighboring Afghanistan , but inside Pakistan as well .
He called on Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf and his military advisors to confront the problem directly .
All seven cities bidding to host the 2014 Winter Olympics have submitted their candidate files to the International Olympic Committee ahead of Wednesday 's deadline .
The cities include Almaty , Kazakhstan , Borjomi , Georgia and Jaca , Spain .
PyeongChang , South Korea , Salzburg , Austria , Sochi , Russia and Sofia , Bulgaria are also candidates .
The cities responded to a 25-point questionnaire that covered issues such as venues , finances , transportation , accommodations and security .
A group of International Olympic Committee officials will review the applications .
The IOC executive board will meet in June to decide whether to accept all seven as official candidates .
The IOC will select the host city in July of 2007 .
An international Islamic organization has called on Chad and Sudan to exercise restraint and try to defuse their growing tension .
The Organization of the Islamic Conference issued the appeal late Sunday , two days after Chad declared what it called a " state of belligerence " with Sudan .
In a statement , the OIC secretary-general , Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu , asked the two member states to resolve their conflict through " positive dialogue and negotiation . "
Tensions rose last week after Chadian forces clashed with rebels who Chad says are backed by the Sudanese government .
Chad described Sudan as an " enemy , " and called on the Chadian people to mobilize against what it called Sudanese aggression .
Sudan denies any connection with the Chadian rebels , many of whom are deserters from Chad 's army opposed to President Idriss Deby .
NATO says three American soldiers have been killed in two separate bomb attacks in Afghanistan .
The alliance says two U.S. troops were killed in an explosion in eastern Afghanistan Friday .
Another U.S. service member was killed the same day in a bombing in the country 's south .
This is already the deadliest year for international troops serving in Afghanistan since the war began .
U.S. President Barack Obama is weighing a recommendation by his top commander in Afghanistan General Stanley McChrystal to send more troops to battle a growing Taliban insurgency .
Finland has defeated host Italy , 07-Apr , to reach the medal round of men 's Olympic curling at the Turin Games .
The victory Sunday in Pinerolo also allowed the United States and Britain to advance following a ( 09-Aug ) U.S. victory over Britain .
Italy has fallen into a tie for fifth place with Norway .
Canada is currently fourth .
New Zealand is the only team eliminated so far .
Finland will play Britain later Sunday .
Also on the schedule , Canada faces New Zealand .
Sweden will play Switzerland .
Norway takes on Germany .
Curling is an ancient game which originated prior to the 1500s in Scotland .
The name refers to the slow , sideways spiral of a sliding stone as it glides to a circular target at the far end of the ice .
U.S. officials have strongly challenged a report that the United States is carrying out secret reconnaissance missions in Iran to identify targets for possible military strikes .
The U.S. Defense Department , in a statement Monday , said the article is " so riddled with errors of fundamental fact " that it has no credibility .
The story in The New Yorker magazine says the Bush administration has sent secret commando teams into Iran to pick out nuclear , chemical and missile sites that could be destroyed by airstrikes and commando raids .
The article was written by veteran journalist Seymour Hersh , who exposed the abuse of Iraqi detainees at Abu Ghraib prison last year .
Mr. Hersh cites a former high-level intelligence official and a U.S. government consultant as sources for the story .
White House Communications Director Dan Bartlett said Mr. Hersh 's story is " riddled with inaccuracies " with some conclusions not based on fact .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez says his government is taking over several metal companies .
He announced Saturday Venezuela will nationalize businesses including Matesi , which produces iron briquettes , and aluminum-maker Norpro .
Venezuela began to take over Matesi from its Luxembourg-based parent company Tenaris last year .
Mr. Chavez says he is moving to nationalize Matesi after settlement talks failed .
There was no immediate comment from Tenaris or any of the companies listed for nationalization .
In recent years , Mr. Chavez has nationalized firms in many sectors , including petroleum , communications , electricity , banking and agriculture .
Chinese state media say at least 11 miners are dead and three are missing after a gas explosion at a coal mine in northern China .
The official Xinhua news agency says 16 miners were working in the Xingguang Coal Industry Co. mine in Shanxi province at the time of the blast on Monday .
Xinhua says rescuers have found two workers alive and recovered 11 bodies .
It says they are searching for three missing miners .
China 's mining industry is the world 's deadliest .
China says 3,200 miners died in accidents last year .
Government figures show that almost 80 percent of China 's estimated 16,000 mines are illegal .
Officials say a meeting between Israeli and U.N. military officers has ended without agreement , threatening to delay Israel 's full troop withdrawal from Lebanon .
The meeting took place Tuesday in the Lebanese town of Naqoura .
But after the meeting , the head of the U.N. peacekeeping force in southern Lebanon , General Alain Pellegrini , said Israeli forces could possibly leave the country by the end of this month .
And in Jerusalem , Israel 's defense minister , Amir Peretz , said he hopes Israeli troops can leave Lebanon sometime this week or several days afterward .
He said agreements must be finalized before a withdrawal can take place .
Israeli troops have been gradually withdrawing from Lebanese territory they captured during the month-long war with Hezbollah militants that ended August 14 .
Under the ceasefire , 15,000 U.N. peacekeeping forces and the Lebanese military will patrol the border region with Israel .
Palestinian officials say security forces are searching for two Fox News journalists abducted in Gaza Monday .
They say authorities are trying to determine who took the two men - an American and a New Zealand national .
New Zealand Prime Minister Helen Clark has sent diplomats to the region to work with Palestinian authorities to secure the journalists ' release .
Press rights group Reporters Without Borders has called for the men 's release .
It says they were doing their jobs and can in no way be held responsible for U.S. policy in the region .
Several foreign nationals have been kidnapped and released in Gaza this year .
U.N. officials say the situation in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo appears to be improving after the deployment of peacekeeping troops there .
At least 250 peacekeepers have been positioned near the villages of Lubero and Kanyabayonga to set up a buffer zone between rival army factions that clashed earlier this week .
After briefing the U.N. Security Council , the U.N. undersecretary-general for peacekeeping , Jean-Marie Guehenno , told reporters Wednesday the situation appears now to be improving , but is still fragile .
Recently , the Congolese government has been sending reinforcements to the mostly lawless east , amid threats from Rwanda that it reserves the right to attack Rwandan Hutu militants on Congolese soil .
Saudi Arabia has issued a new list of some 36 wanted militants who are suspected of having ties to a series of terrorist attacks in the kingdom over the last two years .
Officials say 29 of the suspects on the list are Saudis .
Others include three men from Chad , one Moroccan , a Kuwaiti , a Yemeni and a Mauritanian .
Some 15 of the 36 suspects are believed to be living inside Saudi Arabia .
Official media published the list Tuesday .
It is the third such list of wanted militants that authorities have issued in recent years .
Since 2003 , Saudi Arabia has been hit by a series of terrorist attacks on Saudis and foreigners .
Security forces have since killed or arrested dozens of militants .
A Lebanese general who appeared in a videotape drinking tea with Israeli soldiers has been ordered arrested .
Lebanon 's Interior Ministry said Wednesday it ordered the arrest of General Adnan Daoud .
The general commanded a joint military-police force in the mainly Christian town of Marjayoun in southern Lebanon , when Israeli troops entered the town last week and seized his base .
A Lebanese television station later aired Israeli footage of General Daoud having tea with his Israeli counterparts while they occupied his base .
Lebanon and Israel are officially in a state of war , and maintain no economic or diplomatic relations .
A British aid group says the food crisis in Niger should not overshadow similar situations throughout western Africa , including the shortage facing Niger 's neighbor , Mali .
Oxfam says more than one million people in Mali are at risk .
Oxfam 's regional director for West Africa , Natasha Kofoworola Quist , Wednesday called on governments to fund the U.N. World Food Program appeal for Mali .
Ms. Quist says the U.N. agency has received less than 15 percent of the $ 7.4 million it has requested in emergency aid to the nation .
Oxfam also says 5,00,000 people in Burkina Faso are in need of food aid , and another 8,00,000 people in Mauritania are at risk .
Ms. Quist urged donors to act quickly to address the situations in these countries .
Venezuelan newspaper editor and long-time leftist leader Teodoro Petkoff has announced he is a candidate for president .
During his televised announcement Thursday , the 74-year-old Petkoff said " The anguish , division and fear can not continue . "
He also said the government under President Hugo Chavez has spent huge amounts of money , yet the poor are not getting ahead and jobs have not been created .
Petkoff was a communist rebel in the 1960s but broke off from the Communist Party and helped form the Movement Toward Socialism ( MAS ) party .
He was later elected to congress and served as planning minister in the 1990s .
As editor of the newspaper Tal Cual , he has been a steady critic of the Chavez government .
He joins three other candidates : William Ojeda , Roberto Smith , and Julio Borges in running against Mr. Chavez in Venezuela 's December 3 election .
Burma 's government is accusing the U.S. and British embassies there of interfering in that nation 's internal affairs by teaching what it calls " illegal courses . "
An article published Thursday in the state-run newspaper New Light of Myanmar says the Western embassies have been disrupting peace and stability by offering courses in English proficiency and international relations .
State media claim the courses do not bring about the improvement of spoken English and instead are designed to indoctrinate students .
They claim the courses were developed in cooperation with the opposition National League for Democracy .
The U.S. Embassy in Rangoon tells VOA it has offered the classes for years and that they are well within the bounds of diplomatic practice .
Somali rebels have fired mortars toward the presidential palace in the capital , Mogadishu , killing at least seven civilians .
Witnesses and a military spokesman on Wednesday said the attack happened late Tuesday .
They said the mortars , aimed at the presidential mansion , hit a civilian neighborhood nearby instead .
Some reports said several government soldiers were also killed in the attack , but that has not been confirmed .
Islamist insurgent groups trying to topple Somalia 's government launched an offensive early this month .
Fighting since then has killed nearly 200 people in Mogadishu .
The U.N. refugee agency on Tuesday said a total of 67,000 Somalis have fled the capital since the attacks against government targets began on May 8 .
Lebanon 's new government has won an overwhelming vote of confidence in parliament , clearing the way for parliamentary elections next month .
Najib Mikati After two days of debate , the new cabinet led by Prime Minister Najib Mikati won 109 votes in the 128-member parliament .
Shortly after Wednesday 's vote , parliament Speaker Nabih Berri confirmed that elections will be held over several weekends starting May 29 .
The cabinet approval comes one day after Syrian Foreign Minister Farouk al-Shara informed the United Nations that Damascus has completed the withdrawal of all Syrian forces from Lebanon .
A United Nations team is verifying the pullout , and U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan says he is investigating allegations that Syrian military intelligence personnel remain inside Lebanon in new positions .
South Africa will give survivors of the Asian tsunami a dozen large shipping containers filled with smuggled clothes and shoes that have been confiscated by customs officers .
The South African government said Wednesday it is donating the six meter-long containers to the South African Red Cross for distribution in countries devastated by the tsunami .
South Africa has already set up a national committee to raise funds for those affected the disaster .
South African officials say the tsunami killed at least nine South African tourists in Thailand .
Hundreds more are listed as missing .
Witnesses in Somalia 's capital Mogadishu say several soldiers and civilians were killed Saturday in multiple clashes between Islamist insurgents and government troops .
There were no reports of Islamist fighters dying in the gunbattles .
Details of the fighting , as well as casualty figures , could not be independently confirmed because of ongoing violence in the region .
Insurgents have repeatedly targeted government forces and bases in southern Somalia since the government and allied Ethiopian troops drove the Islamic Courts Union from power more than one year ago .
In recent weeks , Islamist fighters have seized control of several Somali towns .
They usually withdraw voluntarily after freeing prisoners .
Fighting between the insurgents and pro-government forces has killed thousands of Somalis during the past 16 months .
The United States says it objects to a planned move by Egypt to postpone local elections for two years .
A State Department spokesman , Sean McCormack , said Tuesday that Washington will raise the issue with Cairo .
He said that as a matter of principle , the United States does not favor postponing elections .
Egypt 's upper house of parliament Sunday approved a decree from President Hosni Mubarak for a two-year extension to the term of local councils , most of which are dominated by members of the ruling National Democratic Party .
Its passage through the lower house this week is almost certain .
The banned Muslim Brotherhood says the move is an effort to block its allies from capturing more local council seats , after gains in recent parliamentary elections .
Kenyan authorities have filed manslaughter charges against four men in connection to last week 's building collapse in Nairobi , which killed at least 14 people .
Wednesday , Nairobi 's chief magistrate issued arrest warrants for the men , who include the owner of the building , Francis Kihonge and three others who were supervising its construction .
All four remain at-large and were charged in absentia .
Authorities also charged four city council members with negligence for alleged lapses in the building permit and inspection process .
The four pleaded not guilty and were set free on bail .
More than 100 people were injured when the five-story building suddenly collapsed on January 23 while still under construction .
Investigators have cited construction flaws as the likely reason for the collapse .
Loyal supporters of former Serb leader Slobodan Milosevic have gathered to mark the first anniversary of his death .
Mourners and officials of the Socialist Party , which Milosevic once led , laid wreaths and gave speeches Saturday at the former Yugoslavian President 's grave in the Serbian town of Pozarevac Socialist party head Ivica Dacic celebrated Milosevic 's political principles including keeping the breakaway province of Kosovo as a part of Serbia .
On March 11 of last year , Milosevic was found dead in his jail cell at the age of 64 .
He died just weeks before the expected end of his war-crimes trial .
Milosevic had been on trial at the United Nations war crime tribunal in the Hague facing more than 60 counts of war crimes and crimes against humanity for his role in the Balkan wars in the 1990s .
China and Saudi Arabia have signed a number of agreements boosting economic cooperation .
The agreements came Saturday on the first day of Chinese President Hu Jintao 's three-day visit to Saudi Arabia .
Mr. Hu met with King Abdullah , and the two oversaw the signing of the economic agreements .
Details of the deals were not immediately available .
Mr. Hu was also meeting today with Saudi businessmen and touring the Riyadh headquarters of petrochemical giant Saudi Basic Industries Corporation .
He meets industry leaders in the oil-rich east Sunday .
Mr. Hu arrived in Saudi Arabia today from the United States .
His Saudi trip comes three months after King Abdullah visited Beijing on his first overseas tour as king .
The countries signed agreements on energy , economic and trade policies .
China has been looking to strengthen relationships with major oil suppliers as it becomes more reliant on oil imports .
Irish authorities are investigating whether a second American woman was involved in a plot to kill a Swedish cartoonist for drawing an image of the Prophet Muhammad with the body of a dog .
Police say the woman was detained along with her Algerian husband and five other people Tuesday .
On the same day , the U.S. Justice Department announced the indictment of Colleen LaRose , who called herself " Jihad Jane " for plotting to kill a Swedish man , believed to be cartoonist Lars Vilks .
LaRose is charged with conspiring to give material support to terrorists , conspiracy to kill in a foreign country , and other offenses .
Officials say at least some of the seven suspects arrested in Ireland had been in contact with LaRose .
Palestinians have clashed with Egyptian police at the Rafah border crossing between Egypt and the Gaza Strip .
Witnesses and police say angry Palestinians threw stones at border guards after only a limited number of them were allowed to enter Egypt .
At least six police were injured .
Police used water cannons against the crowd .
Egypt opened the crossing on Tuesday to allow entry by Palestinians who need medical treatment not available in Gaza .
Egypt has kept the Rafah crossing closed since the militant group Hamas seized control of Gaza more than a year ago .
In January , Hamas militants blew open the border wall , allowing thousands of Palestinians to stream into Egypt to buy goods that are scarce in Gaza , which is subject to an Israeli blockade .
Egypt sealed the border breach about two weeks later .
A Spanish judge has reinstated an international arrest warrant for three U.S. soldiers on charges arising from the death of a Spanish journalist in Iraq .
Judge Santiago Pedraz filed the warrant Tuesday in a case arising from the 2003 shelling of a hotel in Baghdad in which Spanish television journalist Jose Couso was killed .
The judge first issued an arrest order in 2005 but a court subsequently ruled that Spain had no jurisdiction to try the soldiers .
The country 's Supreme Court overturned that decision in December and reopened the case .
A U.S. tank fired at Baghdad 's Palestine Hotel in April 2003 killing Couso along with a Ukrainian cameraman Taras Portsyuk .
Following the incident , then U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell said the U.S. troops acted in self defense after drawing fire from the hotel .
Dozens of Palestinian refugees are leaving a refugee camp in northern Lebanon , clearing the way for a possible renewed army assault on Islamic militants in the camp .
Some of the last remaining refugees in the Nahr al-Bared camp near the city of Tripoli left the camp Wednesday .
The Lebanese army has been battling Fatah al-Islam militants inside the camp since May 20 .
Almost all of the 31,000 Palestinian refugees have now left the camp .
More than 170 people have been killed in the fighting .
A sniper killed a Lebanese soldier Tuesday .
The army says it has seized all the militants ' positions on the outskirts of the camp and is poised for a final assault on the remaining militants in the camp .
Philippine troops killed six Communist rebels Sunday in a clash north of Manila .
An infantry unit on routine patrol ran into a 40-man unit from the New People 's Army , touching off the fighting .
A military spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Buenaventura Pascual , says troops are still in action , rooting out pockets of resistance .
The government has not reported any casualties .
The NPA is the armed wing of the Communist Party of the Philippines .
Both groups are listed as terrorist organizations by the United States and the European Union .
NATO and Afghan officials say at least five Afghan police officers were wounded early Saturday , when NATO helicopters mistakenly fired on them .
NATO says its forces were responding to small arms fire from insurgents in Ghazni province , when two of its Apache helicopters fired on police by mistake .
The alliance says at least one Afghan police officer was in critical condition .
Afghan officials confirmed the incident and said at least six police were wounded .
NATO says it is conducting an investigation .
The alliance says it is also investigating reports that two Afghan civilians were mistakenly killed in neighboring Uruzgan province Friday , while troops fired mortars at insurgents .
More than 1,00,000 foreign troops are fighting Afghanistan 's growing Taliban insurgency .
Violence this year has hit the worst level in Afghanistan since the Taliban was ousted in 2001 .
The Netherlands ' defense ministry says a car bomb explosion wounded five Dutch soldiers in southern Afghanistan on Friday .
The ministry said in a statement Saturday that the bomb blew up near a NATO convoy in the volatile Uruzgan province .
In a similar incident , NATO officials say a roadside bomb struck a coalition vehicle in Afghanistan 's southern Kandahar province Saturday .
Officials say that blast did not cause any casualties .
Meanwhile , the governor of Kandahar province , Assadullah Khalid , said Afghan authorities have detained two men suspected of planning suicide attacks on Afghan targets .
He said the men are from Pakistan 's southwestern Baluchistan province .
A major earthquake in the South Pacific Ocean has triggered a tsunami warning for several island nations and territories .
The U.S. Pacific Tsunami Warning Center told VOA a tsunami warning is in effect for Vanuatu , the Solomon Islands and the French territory of New Caledonia .
No other details were immediately available .
Georgian police have arrested the son of the country 's first post-Soviet president on charges of planning a coup against the government and spying for Russia .
Officials Thursday confirmed that Tsotne Gamsakhurdia is in custody after being arrested late Wednesday at the Tbilisi airport .
Georgian authorities have been seeking Gamsakhurdia 's arrest since November of 2007 , when he was accused of planning a failed coup against President Mikheil Saakashvili .
He also was charged with having ties to the Russian secret service .
Georgian prosecutors filed charges against Gamsakhurdia following mass opposition protests against Mr. Saakashvili .
President Saakashvili accused Russian special agents of stirring up the trouble .
Russia called the charge a provocation .
Gamsakhurdia is the son of former President Zviad Gamsakhurdia , who was ousted from power in 1992 and died the following year .
Police in Indian Kashmir say gunmen have killed a pro-India politician who was once a Muslim rebel commander .
Police say suspected Islamic militants shot Mohammad Yousuf Thursday near his home in the village of Hajan , about 30 kilometers north of Srinagar , the summer capital of India 's Jammu and Kashmir state .
The gunmen also wounded the politician 's wife and bodyguard in the attack .
Yousuf was a senior member of the Awami League , a Kashmiri political party created by former Muslim militants .
Yousuf had previously fought against Indian forces in Kashmir , but his group surrendered in the 1990s and later switched its allegiance to New Delhi .
No group has claimed responsibility for Thursday 's attack .
But , Kashmiri militants are known to target former rebels who are suspected to be supporting Indian government forces .
The U.S. State Department says it does not want to pre-judge the results of U.S. and U.N. investigations into alleged fraud in Iraq 's U.N.-administered oil-for-food program .
Spokesman Adam Ereli said Wednesday the United States wants the facts be aired fully and appropriate actions taken .
Earlier , U.S. Senator Norm Coleman called on U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan to resign , because he was in charge during what the senator called the " most extensive fraud in the history of the U.N. "
Mr. Coleman heads the Senate Government Affairs subcommittee on investigations , which said last month that it had uncovered evidence of widespread irregularities in the oil-for-food program .
The United Nations is also investigating the charges .
French President Nicolas Sarkozy has called for vigilance against terrorism following the discovery of explosives in a Paris department store .
Mr. Sarkozy said he will not compromise with terrorists .
He spoke to reporters Tuesday at the European Parliament in Strasbourg .
A group calling itself the Afghan Revolutionary Front is claiming responsibility for placing the explosives .
It demanded that France withdraw its troops from Afghanistan by February .
French Interior Minister Michele Alliot-Marie said the group is unknown to police .
The French news agency ( AFP ) says it alerted police after receiving a letter warning that bombs had been planted in the Printemps store in central Paris .
Officials say the store was evacuated and the police found the explosives in a bathroom .
Alliot-Marie said the explosives appeared relatively old and no detonators were attached .
European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana has held out prospects of closer ties with Belarus following last year 's release of a number of leading opposition activists .
Solana spoke in Minsk after what he called constructive talks with Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko .
The Belarusian leader , for his part , called for direct contact between the sides without any intervention by mediators .
In December , the European Union unveiled a plan for building ties with Belarus and five other former Soviet republics .
The plan will provide increased cooperation and aid , but not offer EU membership .
The union earlier lifted sanctions on Mr. Lukashenko and other Belarusian officials following the release of the detainees .
EU authorities imposed the measures in 2006 , following presidential elections that Western monitors said were rigged .
While in Minsk , Solana also met with Belarusian opposition leader Alexander Milinkevich and other activists .
Former U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell says President Bush was right in authorizing a domestic spying program .
In an interview broadcast Sunday on U.S. television , on ABC 's This Week program , Mr. Powell says there was " absolutely nothing wrong " with the president 's actions , because he was trying to protect the nation in the aftermath of the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks .
Mr. Powell acknowledges that the administration could have secured warrants from a secret federal court that approves wiretapping and other forms of eavesdropping .
He also says Congress will have to determine whether it gave Mr. Bush unlimited authority to conduct the domestic spying program without the need to go through legal channels .
But Mr. Powell says the eavesdropping program should continue .
A public-opinion survey immediately after President Bush 's State of the Union address indicates Americans reacted positively to his message .
CNN ( Cable News Network ) television says 48 percent of the people who were contacted had a " very positive " reaction to Mr. Bush 's speech .
Another 27 percent described their feelings as " somewhat favorable , " and 23 percent of those surveyed reacted negatively to the president 's remarks .
The network says its polling organization interviewed 464 people .
Because the survey involved only people who watched the speech on television , CNN says the comments include more favorable opinions than a TRUE random sampling might indicate .
According to CNN , the poll had a five-percent margin of possible error .
Forty~three percent of those who took part said they were Republicans , 23 percent said they were Democrats and 34 percent described themselves as independents .
Iraqi election officials say they have finished a preliminary vote count following Sunday 's election and are dispatching returns to Baghdad .
The officials say the Election Commission may begin releasing partial results as early as Tuesday , but the final results and the naming of 275 elected members of the interim national assembly may take up to 10 days .
Monday , Iraq 's interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi called Iraq 's first free election in decades a major blow to insurgents .
But , the al-Qaida in Iraq militant group led by wanted terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi posted an Internet message , vowing to keep fighting democracy in Iraq .
In a separate development , the U.S. military said American troops trying to control a riot killed four detainees at a detention center in southern Iraq Monday .
Thousands of Palestinian hard-liners in the Gaza Strip have staged protests against U.S. President George Bush , as the president visits Israel .
Supporters of the militant group , Hamas , chanted " Death to America " and burned U.S. and Israeli flags .
Others brandished signs depicting Mr. Bush as a vampire drinking Muslim blood .
Hamas refuses to recognize Israel , and has vowed to undermine Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas 's efforts to make peace with the Jewish state .
Mr. Bush is scheduled to meet Mr. Abbas Thursday in the West Bank .
A new Islamic group has appeared for the first time in Gaza to coincide with President Bush 's arrival in the Middle East .
About 20 members of the previously unknown " Army of the Nation " brandished weapons at a news conference .
They said Mr. Bush is not welcome in the Palestinian territories .
Britain has threatened to seek new international sanctions against Sudan , Sudanese rebels and people seen as blocking peace in the war-torn Darfur region .
Foreign Secretary Jack Straw issued the warning Tuesday at the Darfur peace talks in Abuja , Nigeria .
Those talks are in their seventh round .
Straw accused both rebel and government forces of breaking the cease-fire in Darfur , and he said world leaders have doubts either side is serious about reaching a peace deal .
The foreign secretary said Britain may add names to a list of people from both sides being considered by the U.N. Security Council 's Sanctions Committee .
Three years of fighting in Darfur has displaced some two million people and left tens of thousands of others dead .
A new audiotape attributed to Osama bin Laden is calling on Muslims to launch a jihad , or holy war , to stop Israel 's offensive in the Gaza Strip .
The tape was posted Wednesday on Islamist Web sites where al-Qaida usually issues its messages .
The authenticity of the tape could not be immediately verified .
A White House spokesman , Gordon Johndroe , said the tape appears to show bin Laden 's isolation and his efforts to stay relevant " at a time when al-Qaida 's ideology , mission and agenda are being questioned and challenged throughout the world . "
The spokesman said the tape also looks like a bid to raise money in what he called al-Qaida 's ongoing propaganda campaign .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has extended electricity rationing for another 60 days in hopes that seasonal rains will help refill the low water levels at the country 's hydroelectric dams .
President Chavez declared an electricity emergency in February in the oil-rich nation , saying the country was facing the worst drought in a century .
The hydroelectric sector provides more than 60 percent of Venezuela 's electricity .
Last month , Venezuelan officials announced a 24-hour electrical power cutoff for 80 firms because they failed to reduce their power usage as directed in the emergency decree .
An anti-settlement Israeli group says Israel 's Housing Ministry has plans that would nearly double the number of settlers in the West Bank .
The Peace Now report says Israeli authorities have planned 73,000 new Jewish housing units in the occupied Palestinian territory .
The report released Monday also says authorities have already approved about 15,000 of the units .
Peace Now cautions that a large expansion could destroy chances for a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict .
The U.S. supports a two-state solution .
Israel 's Housing Ministry says the new plans for the West Bank only refer to potential construction and would need to be approved by government bodies .
Benjamin Netanyahu , who is trying to form a coalition government , has said his government would expand existing settlements to accommodate for " natural growth " of Israel 's populations .
NATO says Afghan forces and NATO-led troops have detained a senior Taleban commander in southern Afghanistan .
In a statement released Wednesday , NATO said the militant was arrested Tuesday night during a raid in Helmand province .
NATO did not name the Taleban commander , but said he was wanted for questioning by Afghan security officials .
It said the detained man had gone to Helmand after fleeing a recent NATO operation in neighboring Kandahar .
The arrest occurred as new U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates met with Afghan President Hamid Karzai in the capital , Kabul .
Gates and Afghan officials discussed ways to defeat the Taleban insurgency .
The hardline Islamic group has increased its attacks in recent months .
Last year , an estimated four-thousand people were killed by insurgency-related violence .
Gates wraps up his trip to Afghanistan Wednesday .
On Tuesday , he expressed concern about increasing attacks in Afghanistan by militants from neighboring Pakistan .
State media in Zimbabwe say security forces briefly detained the U.S. ambassador there this week for trespassing in a restricted area near a home of President Robert Mugabe .
Ambassador Christopher Dell was reportedly detained for about 30 minutes Monday after approaching a restricted security area in the National Botanical Gardens near the president 's official Harare residence .
There has been no official U.S. comment on the incident .
Relations between the United States and Zimbabwe have been strained in recent years .
Niger police have arrested a former prime minister , who is an ally of ousted president Mamadou Tandja .
Authorities are accusing Seini Oumarou of embezzling more than $ 5,00,000 of public money .
Mr. Oumarou 's two years as prime minister ended last February when a military coup ousted Mr. Tandja after he sought to change the constitution to stay in office longer .
The military junta that took power has vowed to clean up corruption .
Mr. Tandja has sought leniency from the ruling junta because of his poor health , but his fate is unclear .
Police have taken three other former Tandja officials into custody .
The port of New Orleans is slowly recovering from the damage inflicted by Hurricane Katrina and is now operating at about 45 percent of its pre-storm pace .
Port officials say the third-largest port in the United States handled 17 ships last week , moving 450 truckloads of cargo per day .
Before the storm , around 1000 trucks would typically move 1,500 such loads .
Hundreds of truckers lost their homes , rigs or both in the storm .
Port officials are appealing to truckers across the United States to come to New Orleans and help move cargo in and out of the port and help rebuild the city 's economy .
The International Atomic Energy Agency , IAEA , continues closed-door meetings in Vienna Friday on the nuclear activities of Iran and South Korea .
Iran has promised the European Union that it will freeze all activities linked to uranium enrichment , which can produce both nuclear fuel and material for atomic weapons .
But Iran continues to demand that it be allowed to operate 20 centrifuges , although the EU insists all enrichment activity be suspended .
The IAEA will decide whether Iran should be referred to the UN Security Council for possible sanctions if it was covertly trying to produce nuclear weapons .
On the issue of South Korea , delegates said the overwhelming sentiment was to issue a statement of rebuke over experiments that produced small amounts of weapons-grade uranium and plutonium .
Iraqi authorities say insurgents have killed a senior official from the interior ministry in escalating violence against the new Iraqi government and security forces .
Officials say Brigadier General Ibrahim Khamas was targeted in a drive-by shooting in southwestern Baghdad , Wednesday .
Iranian foreign minister Kamal Kharrazi , left , meets with Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari at Foreign Ministry in Baghdad , Tuesday Meanwhile , the visiting Iranian foreign minister , Kamal Kharrazi , is preparing to meet with Iraq 's speaker of parliament Hajem al-Hassani , Wednesday .
Mr. Kharrazi , who arrived in Baghdad Tuesday , has promised not to interfere in Iraqi affairs and pledged Iran 's cooperation on security .
After talks with Mr. Kharrazi , Iraq 's Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari said Baghdad looks forward to resolving several issues between the two countries , including the fate of missing people and the exchange of remains of soldiers from their eight-year war that ended in 1988 .
Indian police say bomb explosions inside two movie theaters in New Delhi have injured about 50 people .
Both theaters - located in the same west Delhi neighborhood - were showing a controversial Hindi-language film when the blasts hit 15 minutes apart late Sunday .
Police cordoned off the area and the city 's security forces were put on alert .
Several other movie theaters showing the film in New Delhi were evacuated immediately after the explosions .
The movie , called Jo Bole So Nihal , has been condemned by Sikh religious leaders who say it denigrates their faith .
No one has claimed responsibility for the blasts .
President Bush called on the United States to diversify its sources of energy during his annual State of the Union address .
Mr. Bush said dependence on foreign sources of oil leaves America more vulnerable to hostile regimes and terrorism .
The president called for reducing gasoline usage in the U.S. by 20 percent over the next decade .
He said the goal can be met by increasing the supply of renewable and alternative fuels and reforming fuel economy standards for cars .
Mr. Bush also called for greater use of clean coal technology , solar and wind energy , and nuclear power as alternatives to oil .
He called for research on hybrid automobiles , and investing in new methods of producing ethanol .
The president said new technologies will help the United States become a better steward of the environment and confront what he called the serious challenge of global climate change .
The U.S. military says it is searching with all available assets for a U.S. reconnaissance team that disappeared in Afghanistan Tuesday .
The team vanished just before a helicopter coming to help it was shot down in Afghanistan 's mountainous Kunar province bordering Pakistan , with the loss of all 16 Special Forces soldiers aboard .
Military spokesman Colonel Jim Yonts says U.S. forces have been searching for the team since Tuesday 's crash .
He says he has no reason to believe any of its members have been killed or captured .
He said he could neither confirm nor deny a Taleban claim that the insurgents killed seven U.S. soldiers before the helicopter went down .
The crash was the second loss of a U.S. Chinook helicopter in Afghanistan within three months , and came amid a surge in guerrilla activity aimed at derailing the September parliamentary polls .
The southeastern U.S. state of Georgia votes to choose a senator in a runoff election Tuesday , that will help determine whether the Democratic Party can get strong control of the U.S. Senate .
Incumbent Saxby Chambliss - a Republican - is favored to win , which would thwart the Democrats ' ambition to control 60 of the 100 Senate seats .
Sixty seats would create what has been called a " super-majority , " giving Democrats the ability to overcome Republican attempts to filibuster , or block legislation from coming to a vote in the upper house of Congress .
Democrats already control 58 seats in the incoming Senate , with a recount in a very tight race in Minnesota yet to be decided .
Chambliss is facing Democrat Jim Martin in today 's runoff , after each fell short in November of the majority required to win outright in Georgia .
Sweden has charged two men of Somali descent with planning terrorist attacks in Somalia .
The men were charged Friday at the district court in the southwestern city of Göteborg .
Prosecutors say the two men are linked to al-Shabab , a Somali insurgent group affiliated with al-Qaida .
Prosecutors say the men were planning suicide attacks that would cause widespread destruction .
At least one of the men is a Swedish citizen .
The nationality of the other man was not immediately clear .
The men were arrested in May and June as part of an investigation into Somalia-linked terrorism activities in the Nordic country .
Afghan authorities say Taleban militants have freed a Lebanese engineer who was kidnapped earlier this week .
Officials say Ahmed Reza was released near a police checkpoint in southern Zabul province early Thursday .
Mr. Reza , who was working on a U.S.-funded road project , was abducted Sunday night as he drove on the main highway linking the capital , Kabul , with the southern city of Kandahar .
The abductors had threatened to kill Mr. Reza if the Turkish company he worked for did not leave Afghanistan .
But it was not clear if the demand had been met .
Turkey says it is ready to sign a protocol extending its customs agreement to include all of the European Union 's 25 member nations , including Cyprus .
EU officials say they received a letter from the Turkish government confirming it is ready to sign the protocol in time for EU membership talks scheduled to begin on October 3 .
Turkey is required to sign the agreement as a condition for the talks to start .
An EU commission spokeswoman Krisztina Nagy said Tuesday that Ankara 's signing of the protocol does not amount to Turkish recognition of the Greek Cypriot government .
Turkey is the only country that recognizes the government of the breakaway Turkish Cypriot part of Cyprus .
The Greek Cypriots joined the European Union last May .
Gunmen killed at least 25 people in Pakistan 's southern port of Karachi , raising tensions as voters cast ballots Sunday in a by-election to replace an assassinated lawmaker .
The violence broke out Saturday night when gunmen opened fire in several parts of the city .
Police say they have arrested at least 20 suspects in connection with the killings .
The election was being held to replace provincial lawmaker Raza Haider , a member of the MQM party , who was shot to death in August .
The assassination sparked four days of violence that killed at least 85 people .
MQM largely represents the Urdu-speaking community .
The rival ANP party represents ethnic Pashtuns .
Both parties blame each other for the violence that erupted after Haider 's death .
Karachi has been plagued by ethnic and sectarian killings , crime and kidnappings .
China has announced plans to close more than 4,800 small coal mines in an effort to reduce the number of mining accidents .
State Administration of Coal Mine Safety head Zhao Tiechui said Monday that about 2,600 mines will close by the end of this year , with 2,200 more closing in 2007 .
Despite government efforts to close small mines , the official Xinhua news agency reports China still has some 17,000 of them in operation .
The small mines account for one-third of China 's coal production , but two-thirds of the industry 's accidents .
According to Xinhua 's figures , Chinese mines have already reported 2,900 deaths in more than 1,800 accidents in the first eight months of 2006 .
Asian health care professionals have been granted permission to enter Burma to provide medical care to cyclone survivors .
Thirty doctors , nurses and other medical professionals from Thailand flew into Burma Saturday along with medical equipment and supplies .
They expect to provide assistance for two weeks .
Another 47 Indian military doctors and paramedics have also received permission to enter the country .
It remains unclear if they all will be allowed to travel to the hardest hit region in the Irrawady River delta .
The Burmese government has accepted some international donations of help and relief supplies .
But it has refused many offers of help and allowed only limited involvement by foreign personnel in relief efforts .
Kenyan police say an al-Qaida suspect wanted for his role in the 1998 bombings of two U.S. embassies has narrowly escaped capture .
Senior officers say Fazul Abdullah Mohammed escaped a police raid in the Kenyan coastal town of Malindi late Saturday .
They say police arrested two people believed to be Mohammed 's associates , and seized two passports and a laptop computer in the raid .
Mohammed is high on the United States ' wanted list for his alleged role in the August seventh , 1998 attacks on embassies in Nairobi , Kenya and Dar es Salaam , Tanzania .
The bombings killed more than 220 people .
Mohammed is originally from the Comoros Islands .
He has spent recent years in Somalia .
Police say he may have come to Malindi to seek medical help .
The United States is offering a $ 5-million reward for information leading to his capture .
In Afghanistan , a suicide bomber on a motorcycle has killed at least 13 people and wounded 13 others , while a roadside bomb killed a Turkish engineer .
An Interior Ministry spokesman , Yousuf Stanezai , says the suicide attack in Kandahar demolished a guard post outside the city 's heavily-guarded police headquarters .
He says seven of those killed were police and the rest were civilians .
A purported Taleban spokesman , Qari Mohammad Yousuf , has claimed responsibility for the attack .
Also Tuesday , in Farah province , a Turkish engineer was killed when a bomb struck his car on a highway linking the western city of Herat to Kandahar .
And , a bomb attached to a bicycle exploded in the town of Spin Boldak near Pakistan , wounding at least one civilian .
Violence has been increasing in Afghanistan as NATO prepares to expand its peacekeeping force into the volatile south .
Diplomats attending an International Atomic Energy Agency meeting in Vienna say Iran is building a system of deep underground tunnels to conceal components of its nuclear development program .
Iran is said to be trying to make its nuclear facilities impervious to " bunker buster " bombs and other advanced weapons systems .
Reports about Iran 's effort to " harden " its nuclear installations have been circulating during this week 's , three-day IAEA meeting in the Austrian capital .
Iran admits it began construction on underground tunnels beneath the city of Isfahan in September , to " increase capacity , safety and security of nuclear material . "
Associated Press reports that some tunnels are nearly one kilometer below the surface and are made of reinforced concrete .
An American envoy to the IAEA has told the agency 's board of governors that the construction project has undermined Tehran 's promises to suspend its nuclear development work .
Officials in the U.S. eastern coastal states of North and South Carolina are keeping a close watch on Hurricane Ophelia , which continues its slow drift from the Atlantic Ocean toward land .
The U.S. National Hurricane Center says Ophelia is now 350 kilometers southeast of Charleston , South Carolina .
The storm is a weak hurricane ( Category One on the five-point scale used in the United States ) with maximum sustained winds of 120 kilometers per hour .
Weather forecasters expect the storm to move slowly toward the northwest on Monday .
Officials are taking precautions in the wake of the destruction caused by Hurricane Katrina .
A hurricane watch has been declared for a 400-kilometer stretch of the U.S. east coast .
And the North Carolina Governor , Mike Easley , has declared a state of emergency .
The governor has ordered all tourists to leave a low-lying island in the state 's Outer Banks region .
Russia 's president , Vladimir Putin , says his country bears " moral responsibility " for the Soviet Union 's crushing of the Hungarian Revolution 50 years ago .
Mr. Putin made the comment in Budapest Tuesday after meeting his Hungarian counterpart , Laszlo Solyom .
Tens of thousands of people were killed in 1956 when Soviet troops crushed Hungarian forces who had overthrown a Soviet-imposed communist government .
Mr. Putin 's trip was to include a ceremony marking the return to Hungary of centuries-old books seized by Soviet troops during World War II .
Officials from both sides were also set to discuss cooperation on nuclear power and Russian exports of natural gas and oil .
Wednesday , Mr. Putin is to travel to Prague for talks with Czech officials .
Indian soldiers take position during a militant attack in Srinagar Life was paralyzed Wednesday at , in Indian Kashmir , where government offices , schools and many shops were closed in observance of a strike called by Muslim separatists .
The separatist groups called the general strike to protest a recent killing of three youths by Indian security forces who had mistaken them for militants .
Kashmir 's chief minister , Mufti Mohammed Syed , has ordered a probe into the early Sunday killings , and has urged troops and police to avoid such incidents in the future .
The Indian military has apologized for the deaths of the boys .
The separatist insurgency in Indian Kashmir began in 1989 and has claimed tens of thousands of lives .
The rebels are demanding Kashmir 's independence or its merger with Pakistan .
A train carrying parts for U.S. space shuttles derailed Wednesday when a bridge collapsed , but space agency officials say the accident will not delay the next shuttle launch .
NASA says the accident took place in the southeastern state of Alabama , as the train carried segments of solid rocket boosters from their manufacturer in Utah to Cape Canaveral in Florida .
At least two people were injured in the incident and were taken to hospitals .
A NASA spokeswoman said the rocket boosters were meant to be used in October and December launches , rather than the upcoming June mission .
NASA engineers are traveling to the site of the crash to check the equipment for damage .
The same train suffered a temporary derailment last week while traveling through the state of Kansas .
Russian President Vladimir Putin says the United Nations should be the main center for coordinating the international fight against terrorism and extremism .
He spoke at the second day of the United Nations World Summit in New York .
Mr. Putin added that the world body should work to settle long-lasting regional disputes .
Other leaders scheduled to speak Thursday include Iraqi President Jalal Talabani , Chinese President Hu Jintao and Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez .
On Tuesday , U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan and President Bush used the summit 's opening to call for sweeping reform of the United Nations .
Also Tuesday , the U.N. Security Council unanimously approved a resolution urging all nations to reject terrorist propaganda as criminal .
Iraqi officials say three roadside bomb blasts have killed eight Iraqi soldiers and wounded seven others .
Authorities in Diyala province say two roadside bombs targeted an army convoy on Thursday in a village near the town of Jalula , north of Baghdad .
Six soldiers died and five were wounded .
Officials say another bomb exploded near Iraq 's oil-rich city of Kirkuk , killing two Iraqi soldiers and wounding two others .
Insurgents have frequently targeted Iraqi security forces in a bid to disrupt recent security gains that have led to a sharp , overall decline in violence .
Also Thursday , police say the local head of the Shi'ite Badr political group was shot and killed in Amerli district , south of Kirkuk .
And Iraqi security forces seized several weapons and explosives during search operations in a number of villages near Kirkuk early Thursday .
Israeli military officials say Israeli soldiers have shot and killed one Palestinian and wounded two others on the Gaza Strip border .
An Israeli army spokesman said Saturday the soldiers opened fire when three men appeared to be about to plant an explosive device on a fence , east of Gaza City .
He said the two wounded Palestinians were taken to an Israeli hospital for medical treatment and questioning .
Military officials also say Israeli soldiers detained five unarmed Palestinian men Saturday as they crossed into Israeli territory from Gaza , apparently looking for work .
In another development , Palestinian officials said today Israel plans to grant amnesty to 110 militants after they pledged to renounce violence against the Jewish state .
There is no immediate word from Israel .
Israel has offered amnesty to about 250 militants and other fugitives in recent weeks .
Most are members of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas ' moderate Fatah Party .
The Sudanese Republic and Senegal became independent of France in 1960 as the Mali Federation .
When Senegal withdrew after only a few months , what formerly made up the Sudanese Republic was renamed Mali .
Rule by dictatorship was brought to a close in 1991 by a military coup - led by the current president Amadou TOURE - enabling Mali 's emergence as one of the strongest democracies on the continent .
President Alpha KONARE won Mali 's first democratic presidential election in 1992 and was reelected in 1997 .
In keeping with Mali 's two-term constitutional limit , KONARE stepped down in 2002 and was succeeded by Amadou TOURE , who was subsequently elected to a second term in 2007 .
The elections were widely judged to be free and fair .
Malta produces only about 20 % of its food needs , has limited fresh water supplies , and has few domestic energy sources .
Malta 's geographic position between the EU and Africa makes it a target for illegal immigration , which has strained Malta 's political and economic resources .
Malta adopted the euro on 1 January 2008 .
Malta 's financial services industry has grown in recent years and in 2008 - 9 it escaped significant damage from the international financial crisis , largely because the sector is centered on the indigenous real estate market and is not highly leveraged .
Locally , the restricted damage from the financial crisis has been attributed to the stability of the Maltese banking system and to its prudent risk-management practices .
The global economic downturn and high electricity and water prices hurt Malta 's real economy , which is dependent on foreign trade , manufacturing - especially electronics and pharmaceuticals - and tourism , but growth bounced back as the global economy recovered in 2010 .
Following a 1.2 % contraction in 2009 , GDP grew 2 % in 2010 .
In early 2011 , the EU ended excessive deficit procedures against Malta , after Malta had taken measures to correct an excessive deficit in 2010 and appeared likely to reach its deficit target of 2.8 % of GDP in 2011 .
The population of the Faroe Islands is largely descended from Viking settlers who arrived in the 9th century .
The islands have been connected politically to Denmark since the 14th century .
A high degree of self government was granted the Faroese in 1948 , who have autonomy over most internal affairs while Denmark is responsible for justice , defense , and foreign affairs .
The Faroe Islands are not part of the European Union .
In 788 , about a century after the Arab conquest of North Africa , successive Moorish dynasties began to rule in Morocco .
In the 16th century , the Sa'adi monarchy , particularly under Ahmad AL-MANSUR ( 1578 - 1603 ) , repelled foreign invaders and inaugurated a golden age .
The Alaouite dynasty , to which the current Moroccan royal family belongs , established a sultanate in Morocco beginning in the 17th century .
In 1860 , Spain occupied northern Morocco and ushered in a half century of trade rivalry among European powers that saw Morocco 's sovereignty steadily erode ; in 1912 , the French imposed a protectorate over the country .
A protracted independence struggle with France ended successfully in 1956 .
The internationalized city of Tangier and most Spanish possessions were turned over to the new country that same year .
Sultan MOHAMMED V , the current monarch 's grandfather , organized the new state as a constitutional monarchy and in 1957 assumed the title of king .
Morocco annexed Western Sahara during the late 1970s , but final resolution on the status of the territory remains unresolved .
Gradual political reforms in the 1990s resulted in the establishment of a bicameral legislature , which first met in 1997 .
Under King MOHAMMED VI - who in 1999 succeeded his father to the throne - human rights have improved .
Morocco enjoys a moderately free press , but the government occasionally takes action against journalists who report on three broad subjects considered to be taboo : the monarchy , Islam , and the status of Western Sahara .
Despite the continuing reforms , ultimate authority remains in the hands of the monarch .
Influenced by protests elsewhere in the Middle East and North Africa , thousands of Moroccans in February and March 2011 rallied in Rabat and several other major cities to demand constitutional reform and more democracy and to protest government corruption and high food prices .
Police response to most of the protests was subdued compared to the violence elsewhere in the region .
In early March , King MOHAMMED VI agreed to establish a commission to reform the country 's constitution ; a popular referendum held in early July 2011 overwhelmingly approved the new constitution .
Gabon enjoys a per capita income four times that of most sub-Saharan African nations , but because of high income inequality , a large proportion of the population remains poor .
Gabon depended on timber and manganese until oil was discovered offshore in the early 1970s .
The oil sector now accounts for more than 50 % of GDP although the industry is in decline as fields pass their peak production .
Gabon continues to face fluctuating prices for its oil , timber , and manganese exports and the global recession led to a GDP contraction of 1.4 % in 2009 .
Despite the abundance of natural wealth , poor fiscal management hobbles the economy .
In 1997 , an IMF mission to Gabon criticized the government for overspending on off-budget items , overborrowing from the central bank , and slipping on its schedule for privatization and administrative reform .
The rebound of oil prices from 1999 to 2008 helped growth , but drops in production have hampered Gabon from fully realizing potential gains .
Gabon signed a 14-month Stand-By Arrangement with the IMF in May 2007 , and later that year issued a $ 1 billion sovereign bond to buy back a sizable portion of its Paris Club debt .
A Farmer one day came to the stables to see to his beasts of burden : among them was his favourite Ass , that was always well fed and often carried his master .
With the Farmer came his Lapdog , who danced about and licked his hand and frisked about as happy as could be .
The Farmer felt in his pocket , gave the Lapdog some dainty food , and sat down while he gave his orders to his servants .
The Lapdog jumped into his master 's lap , and lay there blinking while the Farmer stroked his ears .
The Ass , seeing this , broke loose from his halter and commenced prancing about in imitation of the Lapdog .
The Farmer could not hold his sides with laughter , so the Ass went up to him , and putting his feet upon the Farmer 's shoulder attempted to climb into his lap .
The Farmer 's servants rushed up with sticks and pitchforks and soon taught the Ass that
Clumsy jesting is no joke .
A Man came into a Wood one day with an axe in his hand , and begged all the Trees to give him a small branch which he wanted for a particular purpose .
The Trees were good-natured and gave him one of their branches .
What did the Man do but fix it into the axe head , and soon set to work cutting down tree after tree .
Then the Trees saw how foolish they had been in giving their enemy the means of destroying themselves .
The Somali government has publicly executed two men accused of killing police officers .
The execution is the government 's first case of capital punishment since its formation in 2004 .
Security officials say the men were blindfolded and then shot by a security squad .
In other news , the mayor of Mogadishu survived an assassination attempt Thursday when a roadside bomb exploded near his convoy .
Somali officials say no one was injured by the blast targeting Mayor Mohamed Dheere in the city 's northern Shibis neighborhood .
The attack on the mayor comes a day after gunmen threw a grenade at the home of the country 's justice minister , Hassan Dhimbil .
Dhimbil was not home when the blast occurred .
Also Thursday , a representative from the European Union is in Somalia for talks with President Abdullahi Yusuf on security and humanitarian concerns .
On Wednesday , members of the dominant Hawiye clan have postponed a meeting of clan leaders because of disagreements among them .
The meeting , which was scheduled to begin today , was planned to harmonize Hawiye views before this month 's National Reconciliation Conference .
The Somali insurgent group al-Shabab has seized control of Baidoa , home of the country 's parliament .
Witnesses say al-Shabab took over Baidoa Monday just hours after Ethiopian troops who supported the Somali government finished withdrawing from the town and the country .
Residents had reported heavy fighting ahead of the takeover .
There has been no word on casualties .
Most Somali parliament members are currently in neighboring Djibouti for a special session that began Sunday .
Today , the lawmakers voted to double the size of parliament , to 550 members , in line with a peace deal the government reached in October with moderate Islamists .
Hardline groups such as al-Shabab have rejected that deal .
On Sunday , Ethiopian troops completed their pullout from Somalia after fighting the Islamists for more than two years in support of the Somali government .
Many Somalis were concerned the withdrawal would cause a power vacuum , and lead to more fighting .
Various Islamist groups have taken control over much of the country in recent months , leaving the government in charge of only Baidoa and parts of the capital , Mogadishu .
The government has been hampered by infighting that led to the resignation of President Abdullahi Yusuf last month .
The lawmakers meeting in Djibouti are scheduled to elect a new president within days , after the new parliament members are seated .
A moderate Islamist group , the Alliance for the Re-Liberation of Somalia , will take 200 of the new seats .
The alliance 's leader , Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed , is on a long list of candidates looking to become Somalia 's next president .
China says it has released more than a thousand people held for alleged involvement in anti-government riots in Tibet 's capital , Llasa , three months ago .
The official Xinhua news agency Friday said authorities released 1,157 people who participated in deadly protests in March .
It says 12 others were sentenced this week for their role in the protests .
In April , authorities handed down punishments to 30 people on charges including arson , robbery and attack on state organs during the unrest .
The news agency quotes Tibet 's vice chairman Palma Trily as saying another 116 people remain in custody awaiting trial .
The report was published two days after human rights group Amnesty International urged China to reveal what happened to more than a thousand people arrested during the government crackdown on protesters .
Russia 's President Vladimir Putin has held talks with Saudi Arabia 's King Abdullah on the situation in Iraq and the Mideast peace process .
The two leaders met Sunday at the king 's palace in Riyadh .
It is the first time a Russian president has visited the kingdom , a traditional ally of the United States .
Prior to the meeting , King Abdullah told the Russian news agency Itar-Tass that Mr. Putin 's visit will help improve bilateral cooperation .
Mr. Putin will make a brief visit to Doha , Qatar Monday , before traveling to Amman , Jordan , for a meeting Tuesday with Jordan 's King Abdullah .
Mr. Putin 's meetings with Arab leaders are expected to focus on trade and counter-terrorism issues .
Moscow also is hoping to sell Russian-made weapons to Arab states that usually buy their arms from the U.S.
Foreign ministers from the African Union are discussing ways to boost Africa 's role at the United Nations .
AU Commission Chairman Alpha Oumar Konare asked officials meeting at AU headquarters in Ethiopia Monday to work together on possible U.N. reforms .
He said any proposed changes must reflect Africa 's vision for the future and its position in the world .
Last month , African foreign ministers agreed to press for two permanent seats for African nations on the U.N. Security Council .
They also discussed creating three non-permanent seats for African countries .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan has called for expanding membership in the group 's top decision-making body .
Egypt , Nigeria and South Africa are expected to seek spots on the Security Council if U.N. officials agree to changes .
Israeli troops have shot dead a Palestinian militant at a West Bank refugee camp , further straining a fragile ceasefire between the two sides .
Palestinians say the man killed near Nablus was a member of the militant group Al Aqsa Martyrs ' Brigades .
Militant groups are now discussing whether to continue honoring the ceasefire after three Palestinian teenagers were killed in a separate incident Saturday in Gaza .
Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas Thursday ordered Palestinian security services to unify under the Palestinian government .
Israel and Washington have long called for security reforms .
More than one dozen separate security factions now operate independently .
Also today , the United Nations Commission on Human Rights in Geneva urged Israel to stop building settlements in occupied Palestinian territory .
The United States voted against the resolution , calling it " biased . "
However , President Bush recently called for a halt to the settlement construction .
Palestinian officials say an Israeli airstrike in the Gaza Strip killed three people Wednesday .
They say one of the dead is a young girl .
Officials say the strike hit a Palestinian militant training camp .
At least three others were wounded .
Hours earlier , Palestinian security officials say an Israeli helicopter strike killed two members of the radical Palestinian group , Islamic Jihad .
Officials say Israeli helicopters fired missiles on at least one house in the northern West Bank refugee camp of Jenin .
Islamic Jihad has been responsible for suicide bombings and other attacks in Israel in recent years .
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad says Iran has the right to peaceful nuclear technology , and says governments criticizing Tehran 's nuclear efforts should first object to Israel 's suspected nuclear arsenal .
Speaking Thursday after talks with Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , the Syrian leader said countries opposed to Iran 's nuclear program have not provided a " convincing or logical reason " for their opposition .
The Iranian leader 's two-day visit to Damascus comes as both countries face possible showdowns with the United Nations Security Council .
The United States and Europe want Iran referred to the Security Council over its suspect nuclear activities .
The International Atomic Energy Agency is set to hear Western arguments on February 2 .
The world body has also threatened action if Damascus fails to cooperate fully with a U.N. investigation into the killing of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Yemen says three al-Qaida militants who escaped from a Yemeni prison have surrendered to authorities .
The al-Qaida militants were among 23 inmates who escaped from a Sanaa jail early this month .
President Ali Abdullah Saleh told the al-Hayat Arabic-language newspaper in an interview published Sunday that security forces were in contact with the other fugitives and negotiating their surrender .
The prison escape was a major embarrassment for authorities battling Islamic militants , and raised questions among Yemen 's Western allies about the country 's security measures .
Among the escapees were leaders of the 2000 bombing of the U.S. warship Coleand the 2002 attack on the French supertanker Limburg .
Iraqi security officials say a triple bomb attack targeting Iraq 's industry minister has killed at least 14 people and wounded more than 70 in southern Baghdad .
The minister , Fawzi al-Hariri , survived the bombings , but three of his bodyguards were among those killed .
Officials say a car bomb and two roadside bombs exploded Wednesday , as the minister 's convoy passed through a predominantly Christian neighborhood , Camp Sara .
The blasts severely damaged several buildings and destroyed many cars .
Meanwhile , a U.S. military spokesman in Iraq , Major General William Caldwell , says Iraqi authorities have demobilized an entire police brigade in Baghdad for alleged complicity with militias .
The spokesman says those police will undergo re-training .
At least 17 American troops have been killed in Iraq in the last four days .
At least six people have been killed and more than 20 wounded in the latest shootings and bombings in Indian Kashmir .
Police say separatist militants killed three civilians south of Srinagar late Tuesday , one of them was a Muslim village head in the Rajouri district .
Indian troops shot dead three militants in Doda district Wednesday .
More than 20 civilians were wounded in two grenade explosions .
In one attack , militants hurled a grenade at a security force patrol at a crowded market in Jammu but missed , wounding at least 18 people .
Another three civilians were wounded when a grenade exploded near a military bunker north of Srinagar .
Russia 's Foreign Ministry says a deal to deliver S-300 surface-to-air missiles to Iran is not affected by new U.N. sanctions against Tehran .
Foreign Ministry spokesman Andrei Nesterenko says a U.N. resolution approved Wednesday does not apply to anti-aircraft systems , with the exception of portable missiles .
He commented Thursday after Russia 's Interfax news agency quoted an unnamed official with the Russian agency that supervises arms sales as saying the country was freezing a contract to sell the missile system to Iran because of the new sanctions .
However , other Russian news organizations quote agency official Mikhail Dmitrivev as saying the deal was not affected by the U.N. resolution and work on the contract continues .
Russia signed a contract in 2007 to sell Iran the missiles that would significantly boost Tehran 's defense capabilities .
However , none of the missiles have been delivered .
For a third straight day , police in Scotland have arrested protesters who breached security at an airport in an attempt to stop shipments of U.S. munitions to Israel .
Security officials south of Glasgow confirmed that five protesters were arrested Tuesday , in addition to at least 11 others detained since Sunday .
In the latest instance , security officials say they monitored the protest group as members entered an empty aircraft at the Prestwick international airport early today .
The French news agency , AFP , quotes activists as saying they broke through an airport fence to board a U.S. military transport .
The report says they examined documents on the plane , and were only arrested after they were spotted boarding a second aircraft .
Scottish news reports last week quoted authorities as saying the U.S. transport flights would continue refueling stops at the airport under international treaties .
Rwanda 's President says his troops will deal with rebels based in Congo and suggested Rwandan forces have already entered the neighboring country .
Rwandan officials have refused to confirm reports that troops have entered Congo to fight rebels accused of launching cross-border attacks .
But President Paul Kagame said Tuesday that United Nations and Congolese forces have not done enough to disarm the Rwandan Hutu rebels and his forces might now be dealing with them .
Yesterday , Democratic Republic of Congo said will send up to 10,000 troops to reinforce its eastern border to help contain what it called Rwandan " aggression . "
Rwandan troops have entered Congo twice in recent years to attack Hutu rebels blamed for taking part in Rwanda 's 1994 genocide .
An Indian cabinet minister has resigned after a probe panel said there was strong suspicion he had a hand in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots in which nearly 3,000 Sikhs were massacred in New Delhi .
The minister for expatriate Indians , Jagdish Tytler , said he had submitted his resignation to Sonia Gandhi , president of the ruling Congress party , and asked her to forward it to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh .
The resignation came within hours after Prime Minister Singh assured agitated members of parliament that action would be taken against those named in the report .
The report said there is " credible evidence " Mr. Tytler " very probably " had a hand in organizing the riots that followed then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi 's assassination by her Sikh bodyguards .
But the government ruled out taking any action against the junior minister , saying prosecution could not take place on the basis of " probability . "
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says he wants to meet with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas every two weeks as they enter into direct peace talks .
Israeli media report Mr. Netanyahu told his advisors late Thursday that he plans to personally lead the Israeli negotiating team .
The two leaders are to meet in Washington next week to relaunch peace talks that have been stalled since 2008 .
One of the biggest points of conflict is Israeli settlement activity in land Palestinians want for a future state .
Mr. Abbas has warned that talks will be curtailed if Israel does not extend a moratorium on settlement construction set to expire September 26 .
Israel 's foreign minister , Avigdor Lieberman , says that continuing the moratorium would upset Israeli settlers who have threatened to bring down Israel 's ruling coalition if the construction freeze is not lifted .
A closely-watched gauge of future U.S. economic activity rose sharply in January , suggesting strong economic growth over the next few months .
A business group , the Conference Board in New York said Tuesday that its Index of Leading Indicators rose a strong 1.1 percent for the month .
That is stronger than the reading for the previous month , and better than economists expected .
Analysts , quoted by Bloomberg News say much of the rise was due to an improving labor market .
Russia 's state environmental agency has filed suit against an international consortium led by Royal Dutch Shell to force a halt in development of a huge natural gas and oil field in the country 's far east .
The Federal Service for Supervision of Natural Resources has asked a Moscow court to halt work on the Sakhalin-2 project planned by European and Japanese companies until completion of a new assessment of its environmental impact .
Last month , Russia 's Natural Resources Ministry ordered a halt in construction of a 20-kilometer section of the project because of the threat of flooding and mudslides .
Western and Russian news media say the construction problems could be tied to efforts by Russia 's state natural gas monopoly , Gazprom , to gain a larger share of the consortium 's project .
China 's envoy to six-party talks on North Korea 's nuclear program says Pyongyang has agreed to close its nuclear facilities in return for fuel aid and other incentives .
Wu Dawei said in Beijing Tuesday that all six nations involved in the talks have agreed to the deal .
Officials close to the talks say North Korea has agreed to close its Yongbyon nuclear complex within 60 days .
In return , it will receive about one million tons of fuel oil .
Officials say the deal also requires the United States to remove North Korea from its list of state sponsors of terrorism .
The U.S. , North and South Korea , China , Japan and Russia began their negotiations last Thursday .
Pyongyang conducted its first known nuclear test in October , and says it has several nuclear weapons .
President Bush has begun meetings with world leaders as part of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in Santiago , Chile .
The president is scheduled to hold one-on-one meetings Saturday , with Chinese President Hu Jintao , as well as leaders from Japan , South Korea , Indonesia , Canada , and Russia .
Mr. Bush is expected to use the meetings to encourage continued pressure on North Korea to end its nuclear weapons program .
In his weekly radio address later Saturday , Mr. Bush is expected to say that he hopes the day 's meetings will strengthen ties across the Pacific and improve shared security .
On Sunday , the president is scheduled to meet with Mexican President Vicente Fox and to hold a news conference with Chilean President Ricardo Lagos .
The two-day APEC summit will also focus on global trade and terrorism .
The government of Chad says its army has killed more than 100 rebels during two gunbattles near the Chad-Sudan border .
Chad 's army clashed with the rebel Popular Front for National Renaissance on Saturday and again a couple of days later .
In a statement Thursday , Communications Minister Kedallah Younous Hamid said the army killed 105 rebels and captured another 62 rebels in the fighting .
He said nine government soldiers were killed and 16 others wounded .
The rebel group has not released any casualty figures , and there is no independent confirmation of the report .
Chadian rebel groups have long sought to overthrow the country 's president , Idriss Deby .
The two sides recently began talks aimed at ending hostilities .
German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer says his country will do everything possible to help Sri Lanka recover after last month 's devastating tsunami .
After meetings in Colombo Tuesday with President Chandrika Kumaratunga and Sri Lankan Foreign Minister Lakshman Kadirgamar , Mr. Fischer told reporters a tsunami early warning system is crucial for the whole region .
He also said Berlin is ready to promote tourism in the island nation and focus on other important projects .
Germany has pledged more than $ 650 million in aid for the region .
Mr. Fischer , who arrived in Sri Lanka late Monday , was scheduled to attend a memorial service for victims of the Asian tsunami at the German embassy in Colombo before flying out of the country .
The popular video-sharing website YouTube has introduced new regulations aimed at purging the site of terror-related materials .
The rules forbid so-called " hate speech " ( speech which attacks or demeans a particular nationality , race , or ethnic group ) and gratuitous violence .
They also bar instructional videos on subjects like bomb-making and sniper attacks .
U.S. Senator Joe Lieberman praised YouTube 's new guidelines , which he said should make it harder for groups like al-Qaida to post material on the site .
Lieberman issued a report earlier this year warning that the Internet plays a key role in recruiting and training terrorists , and in planning terror attacks .
It was not immediately clear how YouTube would enforce its new rules .
On Friday , videos on bomb-making were still readily available on the site .
Iraqi police say a suicide car bombing at a police training center in the southern city of Nasiriyah has killed at least one policeman and wounded more than 20 other people .
Word of Monday 's attack came after U.S. military officials said at least 10 civilians were killed and three others wounded in an explosion Sunday in a market south of Baghdad .
The military says it is investigating what caused the explosion that rocked a candy store and other shops in the town of Iskandariyah .
In another development , Iraq 's judicial authorities adjourned the trial of ousted dictator Saddam Hussein until at least Wednesday .
Saddam and some co-defendants were thrown out of court Sunday after Saddam 's co-defendant half-brother cursed the court and was then dragged away by guards .
Several defense lawyers walked out in protest .
An Indonesian prosecutor says three Islamist militants on death row for the 2002 Bali bombings have declined to ask for a presidential pardon .
He says that will likely speed up the date of their executions .
The convicted trio met with judges and prosecutors Wednesday .
Indonesian law says that families of death row convicts can also ask for pardons .
It is not clear what the families ' intentions are .
Public calls to quickly execute the men have mounted since a second round of attacks on Bali earlier this month .
Last week , an angry mob stormed a prison that had previously held the men , demanding their immediate executions .
The 2002 nightclub bombings in the town of Kuta killed 202 people .
The Taliban are denying reports their leaders have met with a U.N. official to discuss prospects for peace in Afghanistan .
The Taliban issued a statement Saturday saying the reports of them meeting with Kai Eide , the U.N. representative for Afghanistan , were baseless " rumors . "
The militants ' statement said their refusal to negotiate peace had ensured the failure of this week 's international conference in London on stabilizing Afghanistan .
An unidentified U.N. official attending the conference said Thursday the Taliban had met secretly with Eide about the possibility of beginning peace talks with the government .
The official said the meeting took place January 8 in Dubai and was held at the militants ' request .
Israel has launched its first airstrike against Palestinian militants in the occupied territories since both sides agreed at a summit earlier this year to work toward re-starting the Middle East peace process .
One militant was reported critically wounded in the southern Gaza strike .
Israel said it ordered the attack after militants in the area fired at least 15 mortar bombs into a nearby Israeli settlement , wounding a settler .
Separately , witnesses say Israeli soldiers shot and killed another Hamas militant near the Rafah refugee camp .
Meanwhile , Israel has given Jewish settlers in Gaza one week to accept government compensation aimed at gaining their cooperation in the upcoming Israeli withdrawal from the territory .
Tuesday , Israel said that 430 families , about 2,000 of the 8,500 settlers in Gaza , have agreed to move voluntarily to a new community inside Israel .
U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld has warned Iran and Syria against interfering in Iraq 's affairs .
Rumsfeld made the comment Friday in Taormina , Sicily , where he was meeting with his NATO counterparts .
He said the United States has taken a series of initiatives to try to show Iran and Syria that their actions are harmful to the new Iraqi government and the region .
He did not specify the alleged actions , but U.S. officials have previously accused Iran of encouraging radicalism among Iraq 's Shi'ites and allowing dangerous materials to cross the border .
The United States also alleges Syria allows foreign fighters to travel into Iraq .
Rumsfeld met Friday with Russian Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov .
He said they discussed Iran 's controversial nuclear program , but he refused to elaborate .
Female interrogators are said to have used sexually-suggestive tactics while questioning Muslim men at the U.S. military prison in Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
Thursday 's Washington Post reports on the allegations , which the newspaper says are contained in a U.S. military investigation not yet released to the public and newly-declassified accounts from terror suspects held at the prison .
According to the Post , detainees say female interrogators have regularly violated Muslim taboos about sex and contact with women .
The prisoners complain of women touching them in provocative ways , and smearing them with what they were told was menstrual blood , but the investigation found to be red dye .
The newspaper cites an unidentifed senior U.S. defense official as saying the probe generally confirmed the allegations .
Defense Department officials say they have reprimanded two female interrogators for the tactics .
Afghan border police say a suicide car bomber has attacked a police post in southeastern Afghanistan , near the Pakistani border .
There are conflicting reports about the casualties , but officials said the attack in Spin Boldak on Thursday wounded at least four police officers and one civilian .
Two reports said one of the policemen later died .
Police officials said the driver blew up his vehicle as he approached a police position .
Spin Boldak is one of the major border crossing points between Afghanistan and Pakistan .
A Taliban spokesman claimed responsibility for the attack .
Elsewhere in southern Afghanistan , NATO says a British pilot suffered minor injuries when his fighter jet crashed after takeoff in Kandahar province .
A NATO spokesman says the pilot ejected from the aircraft and was taken to a medical facility .
He said the crash did not appear to be the result of hostile fire .
Israeli helicopters fired several missiles at targets in Gaza City early Monday , hours after Palestinian militants killed five Israeli soldiers and wounded at least five others in an attack on an army post near the Gaza-Egypt border .
Israeli military officials say their strike hit a building where militants had been working on weapons to use against Israel .
No casualties were reported .
Earlier , a joint statement by the Palestinian militant groups Hamas and Fatah Hawks said suicide bombers detonated more than a ton of explosives beneath an Israeli army post , in a 600-meter-long tunnel that guerrillas had spent four months digging .
The huge blast at the Rafah crossing killed three Israeli soldiers .
Two more soldiers and at least one Palestinian militant were killed in a shootout .
The U.S. Justice Department has withdrawn one of the many proposals aimed at restricting attorney access to detainees at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
In papers filed Friday with a federal appeals court in Washington , the department says it will no longer limit an attorney 's visits with Guantanamo detainees to only three .
The court has scheduled a hearing next week to consider the restrictions imposed by the Bush administration , which include screening mail sent by attorneys to the detainees , and denying attorneys access to secret evidence used by military panels against their clients .
The administration says the restrictions are necessary to maintain security at Guantanamo .
But civil rights and legal advocacy groups say the rules violate a basic constitutional right to a fair trial .
There are about 385 detainees being held at the U.S. military base , which has housed suspected terrorists captured in Afghanistan and elsewhere .
A top U.S. general has urged European and U.S. armed forces to work together to improve security in Africa .
General Scott Gration was addressing the second meeting of Africa Clearing House , a joint European-North American group that gathered Monday in Stuttgart , Germany .
General Gration said that combined western military efforts can help prevent terrorists from taking root in some nations .
He says another goal should be to help African nations develop the ability to solve their own problems .
General Gration expressed concern over Nigeria , saying the west African nation is entering a critical time , three years ahead of the next scheduled elections .
He says the entire region may face serious problems if Nigeria were to go the way of war-ravaged Democratic Republic of Congo .
Spain 's Interior Ministry says police have arrested at least seven people suspected of ties to the 2008 terrorist attacks in Mumbai , India , that left 166 people dead .
Spanish media report the arrests took place late Tuesday and early Wednesday in and around the northeastern city of Barcelona .
They say the arrested are mostly Pakistanis nationals and are suspected of falsifying passports and other identification documents .
The suspects are accused of sending money and the fake documents to the Pakistani-based militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba , the organization accused of carrying out the November 2008 attacks on luxury hotels , a rail station , a Jewish center , and a restaurant .
Nine of the 10 attackers were killed during the 60-hour siege .
The surviving terrorist has been sentenced to death .
An Ethiopian official says Italy has delayed the return of an ancient obelisk to the city of Axum .
Ethiopia 's Ministry of Culture said the delay was indefinite .
Italian officials cited lack of radar at Axum 's airport and are awaiting clear weather .
The first section of the obelisk was scheduled to be flown to Ethiopia from Rome Wednesday .
The roughly 24-meter high granite structure , believed to be nearly 2,000 years old , is too large to be moved in one piece .
Italy seized the obelisk in 1937 during its brief occupation of Ethiopia .
The two nations agreed to its return a decade later .
Monday 's announcement marks the latest in a string of difficulties that has delayed Axum 's obelisk 's journey home .
An Afghan provincial official says that about 40 Taliban fighters have been killed in several days of clashes with security forces in the country 's south .
General Sayed Agha Saqib , the police chief of Kandahar province , said Sunday , that 35 Taliban were killed and 10 captured in a three-day operation that ended Saturday in the mountainous Shah Wali Kot district .
Saqib said Afghan and foreign troops clashed with another group of militants in Kandahar 's Zhari district Saturday , killing five fighters and detaining four others .
The police chief said there were no casualties among the Afghan or foreign troops .
Saqib 's casualty figures could not be independently verified .
This year has been the most violent since the U.S.-led invasion of Afghanistan in 2001 .
Several dozen Palestinian police stormed the Palestinian parliament building Monday to press demands for a security crackdown on Hamas militants .
There were no reports of shooting in the building , but witnesses say gunshots were fired as police entered the legislative compound in Gaza City .
The police action followed a series of shootouts Sunday between Palestinian police and Hamas militants .
A Palestinian police commander and two civilian bystanders were killed and at least 50 other people were wounded .
British Prime Minister Tony Blair says authorities are investigating allegations that British troops abused civilians in Iraq .
Mr. Blair says he takes any such allegations very seriously .
He spoke Sunday after television stations aired footage that appeared to show British soldiers beating teenage Iraqis .
The video was released by Britain 's News of the World newspaper after it published photographs of the incident .
The tabloid says the footage was shot in southern Iraq in 2004 .
Mr. Blair added that the overwhelming majority of British soldiers in Iraq and elsewhere behave properly and are doing a great job .
Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko says his government will set aside economic disputes and work closer with Russia to oppose U.S. and NATO plans for a missile shield in central Europe .
In an address in Minsk Tuesday , Mr. Lukashenko said NATO 's eastward expansion and the proposed missile shield in Poland and the Czech Republic would " seriously complicate " the military-political situation in the region .
Russian President Vladimir Putin has voiced strong opposition to the missile shield .
He has proposed alternatives to the U.S. plan , including joint use of a radar site in Azerbaijan , or alternately in southern Russia .
Washington is evaluating those proposals .
Mr. Lukashenko is barred from traveling to the United States and many European countries because of his human rights policies .
His comments today were made during a speech at a military parade marking Belarusian independence day .
A suicide bomber slammed his car into a bus carrying police recruits north of Baghdad Monday , killing seven recruits and wounding 13 others .
Gunmen in the Iraqi capital opened fire on a convoy carrying Turkey 's ambassador , though no serious injuries were reported .
In northern Iraq , Sunni Arab political leaders met with Kurdish leaders to discuss plans for forming a new government .
Kurdish and Shi'ite leaders held similar talks last week .
Some Sunni groups have alleged fraud in last month 's elections .
Iraqi oil officials said crude exports had reached their lowest level since the war began , because of terrorist attacks and bad weather .
The announcement came as Oil Minister Ibrahim Bahr al-Uloum confirmed he had resigned his post last week , after criticizing hikes in fuel prices .
The human rights group Amnesty International has issued a report critical of the U.S. detention center operated at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
In the report released Monday Amnesty said 500 men from 35 countries are being held at Guantanamo and that some have conducted hunger strikes or attempted suicide .
It also cites hardships on the detainees ' families .
The group said U.S. authorities should release those who are not going to be charged with internationally recognized criminal offenses .
Amnesty also called on the U.S. to publish a list of those detained at Guantanamo and elsewhere , to close Guantanamo , and to investigate allegations of ill-treatment of detainees .
President Bush has said the detention center is a necessary part of protecting the American people and that Guantanamo 's prisoners are treated humanely .
Palestinian gunmen in the Gaza Strip abducted two Western teachers as they were driving to work Wednesday .
Witnesses and unnamed security officials identified the teachers as the Dutch principal Hendrik Taatgen and his Australian deputy Brian Ambrosio of an American-run school in Beit Lahiya .
Witnesses say gunmen forced the teachers out of their car , pushed them into another vehicle and drove away .
Palestinian militants in the increasingly chaotic Gaza have kidnapped foreigners on many occasions , in order to force authorities to meet their demands .
So far , all abductions have been brief and all captives have been freed unharmed .
Such incidents are an embarrassment for Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas , who is trying improve law and order in the territory following the withdrawal of Israeli forces .
Authorities in southern China are trying to protect Guangzhou and other densely populated cities from a toxic spill flowing downriver toward municipal water intakes .
A zinc smelter dumped wastewater heavily contaminated with cadmium into the Bei River a week ago .
Chinese news media say the river is now carrying up to 10 times more cadmium than is considered safe .
The city of Yingde , up stream from Guangzhou , has already stopped drawing water from the Bei River .
Authorities in Guangzhou say emergency measures to safeguard drinking water are under way .
Chinese news reports say reservoirs have released large quantities of stored water to dilute pollution in the river .
Cadmium , a metal used in several manufacturing processes , is highly toxic and can cause serious neurological , kidney and liver ailments .
The contamination of the Bei River is China 's second major environmental incident in recent weeks .
Turkey 's Foreign Ministry says several of its nationals were killed Friday in an ambush in the northern Iraqi city of Mosul .
The ministry says the victims were security guards on their way to the Turkish embassy in Baghdad .
Four men escaped , two returned to southern Turkey , while two others reached Baghdad .
The ministry did not specify how many guards were killed , but reports earlier Friday of an ambush in Mosul said four people had been killed .
One of the victims was reportedly beheaded .
In another development , the U.S. embassy confirmed the name of an American kidnapped seven weeks ago when gunmen stormed a Saudi-owned catering company in Baghdad .
Officials said they are working to free Roy Hallums and Filipino Roberto Tarongoy , who was also abducted .
Israel 's military chief says the month-long conflict with Hezbollah ended with an Israeli victory against the militant group , but not a knockout .
Lieutenant-General Dan Halutz told the Israeli Cabinet at a meeting Sunday that Israeli forces won the battle through a series of achievements , such as damaging Hezbollah 's infrastructure in southern Lebanon .
Hezbollah also has declared victory in the conflict by highlighting its resistance against Israeli troops and its survival as a military force .
The militant group has so far refused to give up its rockets or other weapons , although it is required to do so by terms of the U.N.-backed ceasefire .
Some Israeli ministers today defended a commando raid in Lebanon Saturday , and warned of more such operations to prevent Hezbollah from getting weapons from other countries .
Israeli officials say the raid was defensive in nature , so it was not a violation of a U.N.-mediated truce .
Former Afghan warlord Abdul Rashid Dostum has officially joined President Hamid Karzai 's administration .
Mr. Dostum , one of Afghanistan 's most powerful regional strongmen , is now chief of staff to the high command of Afghanistan 's central armed forces .
The former presidential candidate , who survived an assassination attempt in January , has resigned his position as head of his northern based Uzbek militia .
When Mr. Dostum 's appointment was announced last month , it drew considerable criticism .
Human rights groups accuse the general of gross rights violations following the U.S.-led invasion of Afghanistan and the toppling the Taleban regime .
Mr. Dostum 's militia has also been accused of drug trafficking .
President Karzai has brought several regional commanders into the government , an apparent bid at a consensual approach to nation building .
Sudan 's foreign minister says a new round of peace talks between the government and rebels in the western Darfur region is set for February .
Mustafa Osman Ismail told reporters at the African Union summit in Abuja , Nigeria , Monday that the talks are to be held in Abuja .
A negotiator for the rebel Sudanese Liberation Army told the Associated Press his team plans to attend the talks .
And a spokesman for the rebel Justice and Equality Movement told Reuters his group would be willing to participate .
Several earlier rounds have failed to bring peace to Darfur , where 70,000 people are believed to have died and more than 1.5 million have been displaced over the past two years .
Israel 's antiquities authority says archaeologists have uncovered the remains of a home in Nazareth that dates back more than 2,000 years - to the time of Jesus .
Archaeologist Yardenna Alexandre said Monday the discovery is the first find of its kind and gives insight into the way of life at the time of Jesus .
Alexandre describes the home as " small and modest " and likely typical of ones in Nazareth when it was a small Jewish village .
The dwelling consists of two rooms , a courtyard and a system for collecting water .
Jesus is believed to have spent most of his life in the town of Nazareth .
The remains were found near the Basilica of the Annunciation , which was built on the site where Christians believe an angel told the virgin Mary that she was going to give birth to Jesus .
Foreign ministers from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations are heading to the Philippines for an informal meeting Sunday , amid growing internal opposition over Burma 's chairmanship of ASEAN .
The foreign ministers of Indonesia , the Philippines , Malaysia and Singapore have urged Burma to implement democratic reforms or risk losing its turn at the ASEAN chairmanship .
Cambodian officials have opposed any move to block Burma from the chair , saying it would violate ASEAN 's policy of non-interference .
Burma 's ruler Senior General Than Shwe Sunday 's scheduled meeting follows comments made Friday by United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan , urging Burma to set a timetable for its " roadmap to democracy " laid out in 2003 .
The United States and the European Union have threatened to boycott further ASEAN meetings if Burma takes the chair before enacting political reforms .
The Lebanese government says it will cooperate with a U.N. investigation into the killing of former prime minister Rafik Hariri .
Parliament Speaker Nabih Berri said Sunday that learning the truth about the assassination is in the government 's best interest .
But he and other Lebanese officials say that outside investigators must respect Lebanese sovereignty .
The Lebanese government previously suggested it would snub the U.N. probe , although it has requested Swiss experts to help with its own investigation .
The U.N. Security Council has demanded a report on the causes and consequences of last Monday 's car bomb attack that killed Mr. Hariri and at least 14 others .
Many Lebanese have blamed Syria for the bombing and called for Damascus to withdraw its 14,000 troops from Lebanon .
Damascus insists it had no role in the attack .
India has unveiled a number of new measures to spur people-to-people contacts with Pakistan ahead of a trip to Islamabad by India 's foreign minister .
Defense Minister Pranab Mukherjee told reporters India has decided to amend a 1982 accord with Pakistan to further liberalize consular and visa services .
The amendment would be signed during Foreign Minister Natwar Singh 's four-day visit to Islamabad to review the progress made so far in the 21-month-old peace process .
On the eve the visit , Mr. Mukherjee also said India and Pakistan have agreed to withdraw their troops from the Siachen glacier , but more talks are needed on how to implement the accord .
The more than 6,000-meter high glacier in the Kashmir region is known as the highest battlefield , where more soldiers have died of cold than in combat .
The British government has announced plans for new laws on the detention of terrorist suspects , after three men failed to report to police Tuesday as required under official monitoring orders .
Home Secretary John Reid , in a statement to parliament , said the monitoring orders were imposed on the three men because it was believed they wanted to travel abroad for terrorist-related activities .
He said authorities did not see the men as direct threats to the British public .
Prime Minister Tony Blair 's government created the control order system in 2004 as a way to monitor suspects deemed a general threat to national security but who have not been charged with specific crimes .
The system was put in place after Britain 's highest court ruled that detaining suspects without trial is unlawful .
Analysts equate the monitoring system to a loose form of house arrest .
Iraqi officials say U.S. and British diplomats are urging them to break an impasse and come to an agreement on a draft constitution by Monday 's extended deadline .
Iraqis involved in the constitutional talks said Thursday that international pressure is mounting on negotiators to resolve issues , including the role of Islam in the state and power-sharing between the central and regional governments .
The United States is hopeful that a consensus on the constitution will help stem insurgent violence .
Wednesday , three closely coordinated car bombings killed 43 people in Baghdad .
Thursday , a judge and his driver were gunned down on a Baghdad street , and the U.S. military reported four of its soldiers were killed in a roadside bomb blast in Samarra , north of the capital .
Officials in Pakistan say at least 12 security personnel have been killed and many others wounded by explosions Sunday in northwestern Pakistan near the Afghanistan border .
At least two bomb blasts hit a security convoy in the Swat area , in the second deadly incident in 24 hours in the same Taleban stronghold .
On Saturday , a suicide car bomber struck a military convoy , killing 24 Pakistani soldiers and wounding 28 more .
In another incident Saturday , suspected militants detonated a bomb near a military vehicle , wounding two soldiers .
The attacks follow Tuesday 's storming of the radical Red Mosque in Islamabad , where at least 105 people were killed .
The U.S. State Department says one of its diplomats has been found dead in his home in Ethiopia 's capital , Addis Ababa .
A State Department official , who asked not to be identified , said 25-year-old Brian Adkins was found dead Saturday .
The official says U.S. diplomatic security is investigating the death as a suspected homicide .
The State Department has not officially released details of Adkins ' death .
Adkins was a foreign service officer in the consular section of the U.S. Embassy in Addis Ababa .
He was on his first diplomatic assignment .
Nepal 's army is still searching remote western mountains for 76 troops missing after a major attack by Maoist rebels .
The army said that at least 40 soldiers were killed by rebels who attacked their army base in the Kalikot district on Sunday .
An army officer says a massive search is being carried out for the missing troops .
Maoist rebels say they have killed 159 soldiers and captured 50 , a claim rejected by the army .
The rebels also say they lost 26 guerrillas and several more are wounded .
United Nations officials have urged the guerrillas to treat any captives safely .
The casualties are the largest this year between the Nepal Army and Maoist rebels , who have been fighting since 1996 for a communist state .
Japan 's justice minister says the country will tighten background checks before granting residency status to foreigners of Japanese descent .
Justice Minister Seiken Sugiura told reporters in Tokyo Friday that the new security measures will apply to those who enter Japan with a special visa reserved for spouses and descendants of Japanese citizens .
He said Japan will begin asking potential immigrants for more documentation to verify their Japanese ancestry and proof they do not have criminal records .
Mr. Sugiura announced the changes after police said a Peruvian suspected of killing a seven-year-old girl in Hiroshima was found to be using a FALSE name and passport .
Police say Jose Manuel Torres Yake confessed to using a fake name and a FALSE date of birth to buy a forged passport .
European stock prices are lower in midday trading Friday .
London 's Financial Times index is down 74 points , more than 1.7 percent , at 4,218 .
The CAC-40 in Paris is down 59 points , more than 1.7 percent , at 3,348 , and the DAX index in Frankfurt is down two points at 4,867 .
In New York , the S&P futures contract is down 18 points , indicating a lower opening for U.S. stocks .
Tokyo 's Nikkei index lost 453 points , or 5 percent , to finish at 8,577 .
Hong Kong 's Hang Seng index dropped 361 points , just over 2.5 percent , to end the day 's trading at 13,969 .
Gold is trading higher at $ 729.88 an ounce .
The dollar is mostly higher against other major currencies .
The widow of one of the four suicide bombers who killed 52 people in the July 7 attacks on London 's transit system says radicals in British mosques poisoned her peace-loving husband 's mind .
Samantha Lewthwaite , the widow of Jamaican-born Jamal Germaine Lindsay , told The Sun newspaper that her husband came under the influence of Muslim fanatics he met late last year , who twisted and poisoned his mind .
She said he became increasingly angry as he saw reports of Muslim civilians being killed in the streets of Iraq , Bosnia , Palestine and Israel .
Ms. Lewthwaite , who like her husband is a convert to Islam , said his behavior had become increasingly erratic in days prior to the bombings , to the point that she ordered him out of the house hours ahead of the attacks .
Jamal Lindsay is believed to have killed 26 people in the July 7 subway bombings .
Security is tight across Kabul as Afghans commemorate the fifth anniversary of the assassination of anti-Taleban guerrilla leader Ahmed Shah Massoud .
A day before Saturday 's ceremonies at the main stadium in Kabul , a suicide car bomber killed 16 people , including two U.S. soldiers , at the capital 's square named after Massoud .
Officials say the bomber hit a U.S. convoy just outside the American Embassy , which is near the square .
Meanwhile , NATO says coalition troops killed at least 30 suspected Taleban militants in southern Afghanistan Saturday .
They are the latest of more than 320 militants killed in an intense week-long NATO-led operation to destroy Taleban holdouts in the country .
U.S. government regulators have given tentative approval to a new drug-combination AIDS pill aimed at making treatment easier .
The tablet , made by a pharmaceutical company in India ( Aurobindo Pharma ) , combines three active ingredients ( lamivudine , zidovudine and nevirapine ) already used separately in HIV treatment .
The new pill is being distributed in 15 nations as part of President Bush 's $ 15 billion AIDS relief program .
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration says the pill , taken twice daily , will make it easier for adults in the most affected nations to maintain their drug treatment regimen .
The tablet can not be sold in the United States due to existing patents on the individual ingredients .
The U.S. dollar fell to its lowest level in more than four years compared to the Japanese yen on Friday .
At one point , the dollar bought fewer than 103 yen .
The greenback also declined against the euro , with traders paying more than $ 1.3 for each euro .
The price is close to a record low against the euro .
The dollar has been sliding amid concerns over the large U.S. budget and trade deficits .
Those concerns were sharpened Friday by comments from top U.S. economic officials .
U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said foreign investors could tire of financing the record U.S. current account deficit .
And Treasury Secretary John Snow said the upcoming meeting of the G-20 in Berlin is not the right forum to discuss currency matters .
The G-20 brings together the seven richest developed nations along with large emerging economies like China and Brazil .
Goldman Sachs says it has sold $ 5 billion in stocks to help repay emergency funds it received from the U.S. government .
The bank raised the money after reporting first quarter profits of $ 1.66 billion , far more than expected .
Goldman Sachs is eager to pay all of the $ 10 billion it received from the federal Troubled Asset Relief Program , as soon as the government approves .
It would be the first major U.S. bank to repay federal loans handed out last year to try to keep the institutions running .
If Goldman Sachs repays the debt , it would not have to abide by government restrictions , such as limits on executive pay .
Some analysts say the government may not want Goldman Sachs to repay its loan so soon , because it could pressure other banks to settle their debt before they are financially stable .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez says he plans to visit his close friend and ally Fidel Castro in Cuba on Monday .
President Chavez made the announcement during his regular Sunday television and radio programs .
The reason for his visit is not known .
Mr. Chavez last met with the former Cuban leader in March .
That visit took place shortly after Mr. Castro turned over power to his younger brother , Raul , after nearly 50 years .
Fidel Castro has not been seen in public since July 2006 when he underwent intestinal surgery .
He has , however , appeared in videos and photographs , and articles attributed to him have been published in the state-run media .
Details of his health are considered a state secret .
Dutch police have raided a suspected training camp of Turkey 's outlawed Kurdistan Workers ' Party , PKK , in the southern Netherlands and several other locations , arresting 38 people .
Prosecutors say 29 suspects were arrested at the training camp near the town of Liempde .
They say the raids are not linked to last week 's murder of controversial Dutch filmmaker and sharp critic of Islam Theo van Gogh by a suspected Muslim extremist .
The Kurdish party has fought for decades for the creation of an independent Kurdish state in southeastern Turkey , at a cost of at least 30,000 lives .
This week , a Dutch court rejected a Turkish extradition request for Kurdish party activist Nuriye Kesbir , whom Turkey accuses of planning attacks .
The court said there is not enough guarantee she would get a fair trial .
A statement purportedly from Afghanistan 's Taleban leader Mullah Omar has dismissed reports that the radical Islamic movement 's fighters were willing to lay down arms in exchange for amnesty .
The statement faxed to news agencies Thursday said the Taleban is not ready for any dialogue with the U.S. backed Kabul government as along as foreign soldiers remain in Afghanistan .
Last month , the Afghan government indicated it is considering an amnesty to Taleban fighters in return for their pledge to lay down their arms and return to normal life .
And , this week , the U.S. military in Afghanistan released about 80 Afghan detainees held in military jails .
Mullah Omar has evaded a manhunt since the Taleban was ousted from power in late 2001 by U.S.-led forces .
The World Health Organization says hospitals in Angola are putting people at risk of catching the deadly Marburg virus by not following proper safety procedures , as the the death toll from the disease climbs to 257 .
The U.N. agency says in the last week , two doctors at a provincial hospital in Uige were directly exposed to blood from Marburg patients .
In another incident , it said a baby was was placed in a cot that had not been disinfected after the body of another baby , who had died from the Marburg virus , was removed .
The WHO said other safety protocols have been also breached , and said the incidents will only increase the chances of the disease spreading .
The Ebola-like virus is spread through contact with bodily fluids , but experts say it can be contained with relatively simple hygienic precautions .
Greek public sector workers staged another strike against the government 's austerity measures Thursday .
Hundreds of workers demonstrated outside parliament in Athens as lawmakers prepared to vote on pension reforms for public servants that include raising the age of retirement .
Air traffic controllers joined the walkout , halting flights at all Greek airports for at least four hours .
The strike also shut down government offices across the country .
Greek officials agreed to reform the pension system as one of the conditions for receiving a $ 139 billion economic bailout from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund .
Lawmakers approved pension reform in a preliminary vote last week .
Labor unions in Greece have come out strongly against pension reform , but polls show many Greeks back the move , and the government calls it an essential part of efforts to revitalize the devastated Greek economy .
The publisher of a major U.S. business magazine is predicting oil prices will drop sharply in the next 12 months .
Steve Forbes says inflation and pure speculation has contributed to the current spike in oil prices , which he describes as " a huge bubble " that will eventually pop .
Mr. Forbes says he thinks oil will return to a price of $ 35 to $ 40 a barrel .
The billionaire publisher of Forbes Magazine made his comments Tuesday in Sydney , Australia , one day after oil prices briefly hit a record $ 70.8 cents over concerns of the effect Hurricane Katrina was having on oil refineries based in the U.S. Gulf Coast .
French anti-terrorism police are investigating threats of an attack on conservative French presidential candidate Nicolas Sarkozy .
The probe follows anonymous e-mail messages sent Monday to a French television station ( France 5 ) and to an official of the Socialist Party that backs Segolene Royal , Sarkozy 's closest rival .
The messages read : " Attack Sarkozy , Lyon , April 5 , 2007 . "
Sarkozy is scheduled to travel to the southeastern city of Lyon Thursday - the date mentioned - for an election rally .
Public opinion polls show Sarkozy with a narrow lead over Royal in the race for the presidency .
The first round of voting is scheduled for April 22 .
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf has praised Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon as " courageous " for ordering the withdrawal of Jewish settlements from Gaza .
He said the forcing of the Israelis out of Gaza was courageous and that he hopes for similar courage finally in the creation of the Palestinian state .
But he says he is no rush to follow up a recent diplomatic breakthrough by Pakistan and Israel and meet with Mr. Sharon at the United Nations this month .
In an exclusive interview with the Associated Press , General Musharraf says Islamabad 's stance is clear .
It wants progress toward resolution of the Palestinian dispute .
And , he said , he will review its stance as more progress is made .
General Musharraf 's remarks follow a meeting of the foreign ministers of Pakistan and Israel in Turkey last week , the first formal high-level contact between the Islamic and Jewish states .
President Bush has again called on Congress to make his tax cuts permanent , saying that wise tax policy is the starting point for growing the economy and helping small businesses .
Mr. Bush used his weekly radio address Saturday to say again that his 2001 and 2003 tax cuts have worked to increase productivity and contain inflation .
He said some people in Washington want to repeal the cuts or just let them expire in a few years .
In his radio address , the president also urged Congress to fight other obstacles that small businesses face , such as what he called " junk lawsuits " , which he said abuse the U.S. legal system .
And he said the United States is working on new energy technologies to help small businesses cut costs .
Mr. Bush will appear before Congress on January 31 to deliver his State-of-the-Union address laying out priorities for the year .
For years , health professionals have been showing women how to do monthly exams of their own breasts as a method of early cancer detection .
But studies this week reveal that breast self-exam may not be all that healthy .
VOA 's Melinda Smith explains .
Afghan authorities say NATO and Afghan forces have killed at least 15 suspected Taleban militants in a fierce battle in southern Helmand province .
The police chief in Helmand , Ghulam Nabi Malakhel , says the three-hour battle took place Thursday in the mountainous Kajaki district .
He says NATO and Afghan troops did not suffer any casualties .
The police chief says among those killed was a deputy to Akhtar Mohammad Osmani , a senior Taleban military commander who was killed in a U.S. airstrike in Helmand province last month .
In a separate incident in Helmand , police say three suspected Taleban militants were killed when explosives they were planting went off accidentally .
More than 4,000 people were killed in Afghanistan in 2006 , during a resurgence of Taleban-led attacks against U.S. , NATO and Afghan forces .
Rising commercial oil inventories and declining U.S. demand have pushed oil prices lower on the New York Mercantile Exchange .
Crude oil for May delivery fell 69 cents , more than one percent , to $ 54.15 a barrel in mid-day trading Monday .
Prices are more than $ 3 below the all-time peak of $ 57.6 hit March 17 .
OPEC officials say that with oil prices easing , the cartel does not need to increase its production ceiling of 27.5 million barrels a day .
A former OPEC official says world oil markets are well supplied .
In addition , OPEC member Kuwait says it will boost its crude output by more than 1,50,000 barrels per day next month ( April ) when its largest output center reopens .
The center was destroyed during the 1990 - 1991 Iraqi occupation of Kuwait .
A rights group has accused Chinese police of forcing a woman into a psychiatric hospital after she attempted to petition the government over land seizures .
U.S.-based Human Rights in China says Liu Xinjuan was one of several people detained last Monday in Shanghai as they prepared to take their grievances to the local legislature .
The rights group said in a statement Friday that three Public Security officers forced Liu into a police vehicle and transported her to a local police station .
The press release says Liu was taken later that night , bound and gagged , to a psychiatric hospital .
The groups says that when her son visited her , he found Liu covered in bruises and wounds .
Liu has petitioned the government several times over improper land seizures .
Authorities in Hong Kong are bracing for large scale protests similar to those at recent annual summits of the World Trade Organization .
On Sunday , about 4,000 anti-globalization activists marched without major incident through the streets of Hong Kong .
The march had a carnival atmosphere .
Demonstrators say their numbers will increase when the summit convenes on Tuesday .
City officials have taken steps to prevent the protests from becoming violent .
Sunday 's march was the first of three large demonstrations planned for the summit .
Another will be held Tuesday , and the final protest rally is scheduled for the closing day next Sunday .
Violent protests marred previous trade meetings in Cancun and Seattle .
Thousands of police have been put on alert for the Hong Kong summit .
A key partner in Sri Lanka 's ruling coalition has threatened to quit if Colombo joins with Tamil Tiger rebels in distributing aid to tsunami survivors in rebel-held areas .
The Marxist People 's Liberation Front , which holds a crucial 39 seats in the 225-member parliament , said it opposes a joint mechanism to distribute relief aid .
The threat came as Norway 's peace-broker Erik Solheim held talks with the rebels about aid distribution in a fresh bid to revive the country 's faltering peace process .
The joint mechanism is designed to make it possible for international tsunami aid to reach rebel-held areas .
It could also lay the foundation for an end to Sri Lanka 's civil war .
The December tsunami disaster killed more than 30,000 Sri Lankans and left many more homeless .
Egypt has released from custody 163 more members of the Muslim Brotherhood .
More than 700 members of the banned opposition group were arrested during protests last month .
Despite Sunday release , the movement 's main leaders and hundreds more are still behind bars .
In May , the Muslim Brotherhood staged a series of protests over an amendment to Egypt 's constitution .
The amendment , which has since been approved , allows more than one candidate to run in presidential elections .
The Brotherhood protested the measure because it also included tough conditions for independent candidates , effectively excluding those not approved by the ruling party .
Opposition leaders said the amendment ensures there will be no serious challenges to President Hosni Mubarak .
Norway 's Catholic Church has revealed that a bishop who resigned last year had admitted to allegations of child molestation committed about 20 years ago .
German-born Georg Mueller stepped down as bishop in the western city of Trondheim in June 2009 .
Church officials gave vague reasons for his resignation at the time .
His successor , Bishop Bernt Eidsvig , told reporters Mueller confessed to abusing a choir boy as soon as he was confronted with the accusation .
Eidsvig said details of the abuse had not been released earlier at the request of the victim .
He said the church did not report the case to police because it was too old to be prosecuted in Norway due to a statute of limitations .
The news of the abuse by Mueller is the latest in a string of pedophilia scandals in the Catholic Church worldwide , including in Pope Benedict 's native Germany .
Chinese officials say unidentified attackers have kidnapped three Chinese workers in southern Nigeria .
A Foreign Ministry spokesman , Qin Gang , says the employees of the China Civil Construction Corporation were taken this week , near the company 's compound in Calabar , the capital of Nigeria 's Cross River state .
The spokesman says the Chinese Embassy in Nigeria is working to rescue the workers .
He did not say whether officials have been in contact with the abductors or whether any demands have been made .
Gangs and militants in Nigeria 's oil-rich Niger Delta region have kidnapped dozens of foreign workers over the past two years .
Most have been released unharmed .
China has been increasing its presence in Africa in recent years , in an effort to secure more markets and materials for its booming economy .
Senegal-based band , Jac et le Takeifa , prepare for their album-release concert .
As a family band in West Africa , leader Jac Keita wants to use music not just as entertainment , but also to address development issues in the region .
Ricci Shyrock has more on the band .
Health officials in Turkey say a child who died last week in the eastern part of the country was a victim of the H5N1 strain of bird flu .
The Turkish health ministry said Thursday tests confirmed the presence of the deadly strain in 11-year-old Hulya Kocyigit .
She died last Friday , one day after her 15-year-old sister and several days after her 14-year-old brother died of the deadly disease .
Health officials say preliminary tests indicate two more Turks have been stricken with the deadly H5N1 strain .
At least 15 people in Turkey were confirmed to have the virus earlier this week .
The developments in Turkey came as the World Health Organization urged Asian governments to speed up testing for bird flu to help identify early signs of a pandemic .
Suspected rebels in Colombia have killed at least nine police officers and wounded three others in an ambush on a remote highway .
Authorities say the officers were traveling in the mountains outside La Cruz , southwest of Bogota Thursday , when the assailants used explosives to attack the police vehicle .
Officials say rebels have killed more than 300 members of Colombia 's armed forces in attacks this year .
Colombia has been locked in a long-running civil war involving two leftist rebel groups , rightist paramilitaries and the government .
The conflict leaves thousands of people dead each year .
Russian news reports say Russia and the United States are making progress on reaching a new deal by the end of the year to cut their vast Cold War arsenals of nuclear weapons .
Thursday 's news reports from Moscow quote Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov as saying the treaty will be ready on time .
Lavrov also said the presidents of the two countries will receive a progress report at a summit in September of industrialized and developing nations .
In July , U.S. President Barack Obama and his Russian counterpart , Dmitri Medvedev , agreed on outlines of a deal to replace the existing 1991 Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty , which expires in December .
The two leaders instructed their negotiators to finalize a pact reducing the number of warheads from 2,200 to somewhere between 1,500 and 1,675 .
The new agreement also dramatically cuts the number of launch vehicles .
On Friday , 11 April , a major cultural and architectural event is set to take place in Washington : a massive new interactive museum complex dedicated to the profession of journalism will open its doors to the public .
The " Newseum " was constructed with private funds at a cost of $ 450 million .
Located in a prime location - about midway between the U.S. Capitol and the White House - its proximity to the center of American political power sends a powerful signal about the profound value Americans place on freedom of expression .
For producer George Dwyer , VOA 's Jim Bertel has more .
Afghan officials say suspected Taliban militants have burned down a primary school , in the latest attack on the country 's burgeoning education system .
Education officials say the militants torched the school building Friday in southern Kandahar province .
There were no reports of injuries .
The local education chief , Mohammed Anwar , said nearly 1,200 students , including about 200 girls , had studied at the school .
Under Taliban rule , girls were not allowed to go to school .
But since the U.S.-led invasion pushed the Taliban from power in 2001 , the education system has benefited from reconstruction efforts .
Despite its success , increasing violence is making it hard for students to attend classes .
The Education Ministry says 3,00,000 children did not go to school last year because of security concerns .
Also Friday , officials say troops killed at least three suspected Taliban militants in neighboring Zabul province .
Pakistani officials say a bomb blast has killed at least five people in the southwestern city of Quetta .
The device exploded Monday on a busy street during the morning rush hour .
Police say the bomb was attached to a bicycle parked outside a shop .
The explosion badly damaged the shop and a nearby hotel .
At least 17 people were wounded .
No one has claimed responsibility for the attack .
Pakistani officials are blaming renegade tribesman from Baluchistan province , of which Quetta is the capital .
A rebel group called the Baluchistan Liberation Army has carried out a wave of small-scale bombings in the province in recent years .
The rebels say they are fighting for a greater share of the Baluchistan 's rich oil and gas reserves .
A top U.S. official met with Nicaraguan President-elect Daniel Ortega Tuesday , hinting at a possible thaw in relations between the former Cold War enemies .
Assistant Secretary of State Thomas Shannon held talks with Mr. Ortega in the capital city of Managua .
Shannon says the two sides are engaging in dialogue aimed at improving relations .
The incoming president is returning to power 16 years after he was voted out of office .
His Marxist policies had plunged Nicaragua into economic chaos .
His Soviet-backed Sandinista government also fought a lengthy war against U.S.-backed Contra rebels .
But Mr. Ortega has openly disavowed his previous Marxist policies and has pledged not to meddle in the private sector .
The White House says U.S. support for the incoming president 's administration would hinge on his commitment to democracy .
Lebanon 's defense minister says his country has confiscated arms belonging to the Shi'ite militia Hezbollah .
Elias Murr also told reporters in Beirut that Hezbollah is cooperating with the Lebanese government by preventing an armed presence in southern Lebanon .
He did not say where or how the weapons were confiscated .
The month-long war between Israel and Hezbollah ended in August with a U.N. backed ceasefire resolution .
The resolution calls for all armed Lebanese groups to be disarmed .
Hezbollah fighters in southern Lebanon were reported to have hidden their weapons when the war ended .
Lebanese army and international troops are patrolling the border with Israel .
Supporters of Burma 's pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi say she has now spent a total of 10 years under house arrest .
Demonstrations were held Monday in front of United Nations buildings in New York City and the Netherlands , as well as outside the House of Commons in London .
The London-based Burma Campaign released a report highlighting what it called " the shameful record of the United Nations regarding Burma . "
Burma Campaign is among several organizations calling on the U.N. Security Council to demand that Burma release Aung San Suu Kyi .
Her party , the National League for Democracy , won a landslide victory in 1990 elections .
But Burma 's military rulers have not allowed the party to take power and have detained its leader for several periods totaling a decade .
Russian President Vladimir Putin is denying any political motivation behind the trial of the founder of oil-giant Yukos .
In an interview with Brazilian journalists published Sunday , President Putin said the case was criminal in nature .
The founder of Yukos , Mikhail Khodorkovsky , is being tried on charges of tax fraud , and the government said Friday it will auction-off Yukos 's largest unit next month to pay back taxes .
Some company officials and analysts have said the prosecution is part of an effort to settle accounts with a potential political rival .
Meanwhile , the Interfax News Agency on Sunday quoted an unnamed Yukos board member as saying that Russian law enforcement agencies are conducting late-night searches of the homes and offices of dozens of top and middle-level Yukos managers .
Thousands of Kenyans demonstrated in Nairobi Tuesday to protest last week 's police raids on a national media company .
At least 2000 people , including opposition lawmakers from the Orange Democratic Movement , took part in the demonstrations .
Several called for high-ranking officials to resign .
Kenyan police say Thursday 's raids on the Standard newspaper and the Kenya Television Network were a matter of national security .
But several members of President 's Mwai Kibaki 's cabinet condemned the raids and the country 's press called the actions shameful thuggery .
Witnesses say police confiscated equipment and burned thousands of copies of newspapers during the raids .
The National Security Minister , John Michuki , defended the raids , saying " if you rattle a snake , you must be prepared to be bitten by it " alluding to the Standard 's often critical coverage of the government .
Both outlets have now resumed their operations .
Palestinian officials say fighting between Hamas and a powerful family in the Gaza Strip has killed 11 people and wounded several others .
Tuesday 's violence began when Hamas police tried to arrest members of the Doghmush clan accused of killing a police officer Monday .
Residents say the fighting is ongoing with heavy gunfire and explosions .
At least one police officer has been killed .
Last year , Hamas seized control of the Gaza Strip after routing Fatah forces loyal to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas .
Since then , Hamas has clashed several times with rival Palestinian groups and powerful Gaza families .
Several Doghmush family members are suspected of belonging to militant groups and being involved with the kidnapping of a BBC journalist last year .
Sudan is asking donors gathered in Oslo , Norway , for more than $ 2 billion in aid to rebuild the south after 21 years of civil war .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan urged delegates from 60 nations to replace their pledges with cash - warning that humanitarian agencies will run out of food for some two million people in southern Sudan in a matter of weeks .
Mr. Annan also said that peace is not possible in Sudan without an accord on the nation 's separate conflict in the western Darfur region .
Conference host Norway pledged $ 250 million over the next three years for Sudan , while Japan announced an offer of $ 100 million in aid .
The United States , which led the talks to end the war in southern Sudan , is expected to give an initial contribution of $ 900 million .
The United Nations Security Council is scheduled to vote Thursday on a proposal to extend and expand the investigation of the assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
A draft resolution by France , Britain and the United States would give the inquiry another six months , until June 15th , and would include other politically-motivated killings in Lebanon .
Lebanon 's prime minister asked for U.N. help after a car bomb blast killed newspaper publisher and parliament member Gebran Tueni in Beirut Monday .
In Washington , State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said the extension is crucial to finish the work of the Hariri probe , which he said has been slowed by lack of Syrian cooperation .
Syria has rejected the claim and denied any role in the Lebanon killings .
A Japanese commuter train has derailed and smashed into an apartment building , killing at least 37 people and injuring more than 200 .
The crowded seven-car train carrying at least 550 passengers during the Monday morning rush hour also hit an automobile at a road crossing near Amagasaki , 400 kilometers west of Tokyo .
The front car of the train , operated by West Japan Railway Company , plowed into the apartment building as two other cars left the tracks .
Rescuers are trying to free several passengers trapped inside the cars .
It is not yet clear if passersby and apartment residents were among the victims .
Authorities say they are investigating what may have caused the deadly accident near Osaka .
The driver of the train was a 23-year-old man with 11 months experience .
China says its trade with Africa surged by 43 percent during the first 11 months of this year .
A central government report released Thursday says the value of China-Africa trade was $ 114.8 billion from January to November .
The increase follows a one-year drop in 2009 , blamed on the global economic crisis .
The report suggests trade between China and the continent will continue to grow .
It notes that China has signed bilateral trade agreements with 45 African countries .
Chinese companies have invested billions of dollars across Africa in recent years , seeking raw materials and markets to fuel China 's economy .
Critics accuse Beijing of helping governments with poor human rights records , in countries like Sudan and Zimbabwe .
Thursday 's report defended China , saying the trade has been mutually beneficial and has helped improve African people 's standards of living .
Afghan officials say Taleban insurgents have killed seven policemen and beheaded two civilians .
The officials say the policemen were killed in an ambush late Wednesday on a three-vehicle convoy in southern Uruzgan province .
Two of the vehicles were hit by rockets and the third managed to flee .
Provincial officials say U.S. forces have found the bodies of two civilians who were abducted Monday by suspected Taleban and then beheaded .
Meanwhile , an Afghan soldier was shot dead after he opened fire on U.S. troops at a joint base in eastern Paktika province Wednesday .
Two U.S. soldiers received minor injuries .
In an unrelated development , at least 15 people were killed when their truck swerved off a road near Kabul early Thursday and plunged into a river .
Settled by Norwegian and Celtic ( Scottish and Irish ) immigrants during the late 9th and 10th centuries A.D. , Iceland boasts the world 's oldest functioning legislative assembly , the Althing , established in 930 .
Independent for over 300 years , Iceland was subsequently ruled by Norway and Denmark .
Fallout from the Askja volcano of 1875 devastated the Icelandic economy and caused widespread famine .
Over the next quarter century , 20 % of the island 's population emigrated , mostly to Canada and the US .
Limited home rule from Denmark was granted in 1874 and complete independence attained in 1944 .
The second half of the 20th century saw substantial economic growth driven primarily by the fishing industry .
The economy diversified greatly after the country joined the European Economic Area in 1994 , but Iceland was especially hard hit by the global financial crisis in the years following 2008 .
Literacy , longevity , and social cohesion are first rate by world standards .
The Paracel Islands are surrounded by productive fishing grounds and by potential oil and gas reserves .
In 1932 , French Indochina annexed the islands and set up a weather station on Pattle Island ; maintenance was continued by its successor , Vietnam .
China has occupied the Paracel Islands since 1974 , when its troops seized a South Vietnamese garrison occupying the western islands .
China built a military installation on Woody Island with an airfield and artificial harbor .
The islands also are claimed by Taiwan and Vietnam .
Two British attempts at establishing the island as a penal colony ( 1788 - 1814 and 1825 - 55 ) were ultimately abandoned .
In 1856 , the island was resettled by Pitcairn Islanders , descendants of the Bounty mutineers and their Tahitian companions .
The Netherlands economy is noted for stable industrial relations , moderate unemployment and inflation , a sizable current account surplus , and an important role as a European transportation hub .
Industrial activity is predominantly in food processing , chemicals , petroleum refining , and electrical machinery .
A highly mechanized agricultural sector employs only 2 % of the labor force but provides large surpluses for the food-processing industry and for exports .
The Netherlands , along with 11 of its EU partners , began circulating the euro currency on 1 January 2002 .
The country has been one of the leading European nations for attracting foreign direct investment and is one of the four largest investors in the US .
After 26 years of uninterrupted economic growth , the Netherlands ' economy - which is highly open and dependent on foreign trade and financial services - was hard-hit by global economic crisis .
Dutch GDP contracted 3.9 % in 2009 , while exports declined nearly 25 % due to a sharp contraction in world demand .
The Dutch financial sector has also suffered , due in part to the high exposure of some Dutch banks to U.S. mortgage-backed securities .
In response to turmoil in financial markets , the government nationalized two banks and injected billions of dollars into a third , to prevent further systemic risk .
The government also sought to boost the domestic economy by accelerating infrastructure programs , offering corporate tax breaks for employers to retain workers , and expanding export credit facilities .
The stimulus programs and bank bailouts , however , resulted in a government budget deficit of nearly 4.6 % of GDP in 2009 and 5.3 % in 2010 that contrasts sharply with a surplus of 0.7 % of GDP in 2008 .
With unemployment weighing on private-sector consumption , the government of Prime Minister Mark RUTTE is likely to come under increased pressure to keep the budget deficit in check while promoting economic recovery .
Oman is a middle-income economy that is heavily dependent on dwindling oil resources .
Because of declining reserves , Muscat has actively pursued a development plan that focuses on diversification , industrialization , and privatization , with the objective of reducing the oil sector 's contribution to GDP to 9 % by 2020 .
Tourism and gas-based industries are key components of the government 's diversification strategy .
By using enhanced oil recovery techniques , Oman succeeded in increasing oil production , giving the country more time to diversify , and the increase in global oil prices throughout 2010 provides the government greater financial resources to invest in non-oil sectors .
A FOX was mounting a hedge when he lost his footing and caught hold of a Bramble to save himself .
Having pricked and grievously tom the soles of his feet , he accused the Bramble because , when he had fled to her for assistance , she had used him worse than the hedge itself .
The Bramble , interrupting him , said , " But you really must have been out of your senses to fasten yourself on me , who am myself always accustomed to fasten upon others . "
To the selfish all are selfish
In the old days men used to worship stocks and stones and idols , and prayed to them to give them luck .
It happened that a Man had often prayed to a wooden idol he had received from his father , but his luck never seemed to change .
He prayed and he prayed , but still he remained as unlucky as ever .
One day in the greatest rage he went to the Wooden God , and with one blow swept it down from its pedestal .
The idol broke in two , and what did he see ?
An immense number of coins flying all over the place .
HARDLY had that ancient order , the Sultans of Exceeding Splendour , been completely founded by the Grand Flashing Inaccessible , when a question arose as to what should be the title of address among the members .
Some wanted it to be simply " my Lord , " others held out for " your Dukeness , " and still others preferred " my Sovereign Liege . "
Finally the gorgeous jewel of the order , gleaming upon the breast of every member , suggested " your Badgesty , " which was adopted , and the order became popularly known as the Kings of Catarrh .
A MAN Running for Office was overtaken by Lightning .
" You see , " said the Lightning , as it crept past him inch by inch , " I can travel considerably faster than you . "
" Yes , " the Man Running for Office replied , " but think how much longer I keep going ! "
You may not take a picture of a rabbit during the month of June .
It is illegal for women to stand within five feet of a bar while drinking .
It is illegal to wear a hat that obstructs people 's view in a public theater or place of amusement .
Cheyenne Citizens may not take showers on Wednesdays .
Iran 's powerful Guardian Council has warned the opposition to no longer protest the disputed presidential vote , one day after upholding the re-election of incumbent Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .
A spokesman for the Council , Abbasali Kadkhodai , told reporters Tuesday " the file on the presidential election is closed , " and the government will take action against those who continue to protest the results .
Meanwhile , President Ahmadinejad again criticized foreign powers over their response to the greatest unrest to take place in Iran since the since the 1979 Islamic Revolution .
Hardline Islamic cleric Ahmad Khatami on Tuesday also denounced those still opposing the Guardian 's Council decision as against the government .
Last week , Khatami called for those leading the " rioters " to be punished without mercy .
Defeated presidential candidate Mir Hossein Mousavi has called for the results of the June 12 election to be annulled .
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said Monday a " huge credibility gap " remains among Iranians about the disputed polls .
Clinton declined to say whether Washington will formally recognize Mr. Ahmadinejad 's re-election , and she would not say whether the post-election unrest has ended U.S. hopes of engaging Iran on its nuclear program and other issues .
U.S. Senator and former Democratic presidential nominee John Kerry has visited American troops in Iraq while on a two-day fact-finding visit to the war-torn country .
Senator Kerry was often critical of the Bush administration 's Iraq policy during the U.S. presidential race .
He told reporters that he wants to see for himself whether Iraq is moving toward stability or deeper into chaos .
The senator arrived in Iraq Wednesday and spent time with soldiers from his home state of Massachusetts at Camp al-Tahreer in Baghdad .
He declined to compare the insurgency in Iraq with the one he faced in Vietnam as a Navy lieutenant 30 years ago .
He also made a stop in neighboring Jordan , where he met with King Abdullah .
The Perth-based firm Barrett Communications reportedly has sold about 50 radio sets to the Burmese government International monitors say sophisticated radios sold by an Australian firm are being used by Burma 's military despite an Australian embargo against military sales to the east Asian nation .
Australian media reported Tuesday that the Perth-based firm Barrett Communications has sold about 50 radio sets to the Burmese government .
Company officials confirmed the sale , but said they were commercially-available , civilian radios and not intended for military use .
The radios have an advanced feature that prevents transmissions from being monitored .
Australian Senator Scott Ludlam issued a statement Tuesday condemning the sale of the radios and called for a freeze on all future sales .
In his statement , Ludlam said international monitors that watch Burma say the radios have been used in recent months by the Burmese army as they have waged brutal wars against ethnic minorities and pro-democracy forces .
A top U.S. business lobby group says the recently signed India-U.S. nuclear deal could open up $ 100 billion in business ventures for Americans in the Indian energy sector .
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce 's senior vice president of international affairs , Dan Christman , made the remark .
He said the agreement would also spur energy-starved India 's economic reforms and open markets to U.S. investment in key areas from information technology and telecommunications to pharmaceuticals and insurance .
The deal was clinched last week during President Bush 's visit to New Delhi , but it still requires U.S. congressional approval .
The chamber represents more than three million American businesses and organizations , and it says it would make a " massive grassroots effort " to win congressional approval of the agreement .
Chinese authorities are reported to have detained at least 60 people , believed to be North Korean asylum seekers , who tried to enter the South Korean consulate in Beijing .
South Korean and Chinese media report the group was detained Tuesday as it tried to enter the consulate .
A South Korean activist group - The Democracy Network Against North Korean Gulag - is quoted as saying two of those detained were activists who helped North Korean asylum seekers in China .
Tuesday , China criticized foreign embassies and diplomatic missions for giving shelter to North Korean asylum-seekers .
Hundreds of North Koreans have broken into foreign embassies and consulates in China in recent years .
Iran 's civil aviation organization says it has asked the United States to resume direct flights between the two countries that were suspended more than 25 years ago .
Iranian civil aviation officials say they sent a letter to their U.S. counterparts on Wednesday .
They say President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad decided to propose the resumption in response to a request from Iranians living in the United States and Canada .
The request was made in September when Mr. Ahmadinejad attended a U.N. session in New York .
There was no immediate U.S. response .
Iranian airliners have been barred from the United States since Washington broke ties with Tehran , following the 1979 Islamic revolution .
Zambia has deported a terrorism suspect to Britain .
British citizen Haroon Rashid Aswat was put on a plane to London from Lusaka Sunday morning .
He had been in Zambian custody since July 20 .
Media reports have linked him to the fatal bombings on London 's transit system on July 7 , but British authorities have not confirmed this .
Mr. Aswat is wanted in the United States in connection with an alleged attempt to set up a terrorist training camp in the western state of Oregon .
He spent time in South Africa and Botswana before entering Zambia in early July .
Egypt 's Health Ministry says a 26-year-old woman has died from bird flu , the third death from the disease in less than one week .
In a statement , the ministry said the woman , from Menoufia province in the Nile Delta , was admitted to a hospital on Saturday and died Monday .
A Health Ministry official said the victim was exposed to poultry infected with bird flu .
The woman was the 18th bird flu fatality in Egypt and the country 's 43nd human infection since the virus appeared there in February 2006 .
Egypt 's location on major bird migration routes and the widespread practice of keeping domestic fowl near living quarters have helped make it the hardest-hit country outside of Asia .
Indigenous demonstrators raise their arms during protest in La Paz
Officials in Bolivia say early presidential and congressional elections will be held on December 4 .
The election date was set after both houses of Bolivia 's Congress approved the plan to call early elections .
In addition , lawmakers also endorsed a measure to reform the constitution and a hold a referendum on regional autonomy .
Last month , farmers , miners and labor groups held huge protests demanding nationalization of Bolivia 's oil industry and new elections .
The protests led to the resignation of President Carlos Mesa .
Chief Justice Eduardo Rodriguez has been serving as interim president .
President Bush signed a new anti-genetic discrimination bill on May 22 .
He says the act protects Americans against misuse of their genetic information by employers and insurance companies .
The U.S. House of Representatives passed the legislation earlier this month with a near unanimous vote .
Later , the Senate unanimously approved it .
VOA 's Deborah Block reports .
A report in Wednesday 's Washington Post newspaper says the CIA has been holding and interrogating some of its most important al Qaida terror suspects at a secret Soviet-era compound in Eastern Europe .
The Post says the facility is part of a secret detention system set up by the intelligence agency in the aftermath of September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks .
It says the facilities , referred to as " black sites " in classified government documents , have also been located in such countries as Thailand and Afghanistan .
The newspaper says it learned of the secret prison system from U.S. and foreign officials familiar with the arrangements .
The CIA routinely refuses to comment on such issues .
South American leaders have held a summit in Quito , Ecuador to discuss coordinating aid efforts in earthquake-devastated Haiti .
Members of the Union of South American Nations ( UNASUR ) gathered Tuesday for the talks .
The group includes the presidents of Colombia , Peru , Paraguay and host nation Ecuador , among others .
Haitian President Rene Preval attended the meeting , which took place exactly four weeks after the earthquake struck Haiti , leaving an estimated 2,00,000 people dead and about one million others homeless .
The gathering was to have included Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez , but he canceled at the last minute .
Mr. Chavez has criticized the U.S. aid operation in Haiti .
He has also had disagreements with Colombia over its decision to allow the U.S. access to seven military bases for anti-drug operations .
Peruvian President Alan Garcia Tuesday said he hoped the region could work together as a bloc to help Haiti .
Insurgents in Iraq have released a videotape of eight Chinese men allegedly being held as hostages .
In the video , aired by al-Jazeera television Tuesday , the insurgents threaten to kill the hostages unless China " clarifies its role in Iraq " within 48 hours .
The abductors say the captured men worked for a Chinese company helping to build American facilities in Iraq .
Meanwhile , a Vatican spokesman says kidnappers have freed the archbishop Basile Georges Casmoussa of the Syrian Catholic Church in the northern Iraqi city of Mosul .
The spokesman said no ransom was paid for the release of the cleric , who was kidnapped Monday .
The head of a World Health Organization team investigating Turkey 's bird flu outbreak says he believes it can be easily brought under control .
Guenael Rodier said Tuesday there is no evidence the disease is being spread by human-to-human contact .
He said the outbreak appears to be similar to what has happened in Asia -- small family groups coming into contact with infected birds .
But health officials worry the growing number of human cases increases the chance of the H5N1 strain mutating into a human strain that can lead to a worldwide pandemic .
Turkish health officials Tuesday confirmed a 15th case of bird flu while Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan assured the nation and Turkey 's neighbors that the outbreak is under control .
Bird flu has killed a Turkish teenager , his sister , and 76 Asians since 2003 .
Taiwan has severed diplomatic ties with Senegal and stopped aid to the west African country following its decision to re-establish diplomatic relations with the Beijing government .
A statement by Taiwan 's Foreign Ministry late Tuesday said Taiwan will immediately suspend all aid programs to Senegal in order to protect its " dignity and sovereignty . "
On Tuesday , Senegal and China issued a joint statement saying the Senegalese government recognizes one China , and that Taiwan is an inseparable part of that territory .
Without Senegal , Taiwan is now officially recognized by 25 , mostly small , nations .
Taiwan and China split in 1949 , after civil war .
Beijing still considers it part of its territory and has vowed to use force , if necessary , to prevent the island from taking formal steps toward independence .
A glacial lake in southern Chile suddenly disappeared this week in a phenomenon that scientists are attributing to global warming .
Scientists say higher than normal temperatures caused the Colonia glacier to melt into nearby Cachet Lake .
The melting ice filled the lake and put tremendous pressure on it , causing the water to eventually burrow a tunnel through the glacier .
On April 6 , the tunnel , which extended at least five kilometers , reached nearby Baker River and emptied the lake waters into it .
Glacier scientist Gino Casassa said global warming is responsible for the unusually warm weather that caused the glacial melting .
Football 's world governing body has threatened to ban Nigeria from international competition unless the country 's sports ministry repeals two recent appointments to the Nigeria Football Association .
FIFA is unhappy that Nigerian Sports Minister Musa Mohammed appointed Segun Odegbami as interim secretary-general of the NFA and Salisu Abubakar as secretary of the Nigerian Premier League board on December 21 .
In a letter sent to the Confederation of African Football and the Nigeria Football Association , FIFA said the two appointments are in direct violation of Article 17 of the world governing body 's statutes .
Nigeria had promised to repeal a statute known as Decree 101 , which gave the country 's sports ministry the power to appoint the Nigeria Football Association 's secretary-general and several other board members .
FIFA regulations outlaw government interference in the running of national football associations .
Authorities in Indonesia say they have uncovered evidence that Islamic militants captured in a series of recent raids had planned to kill President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono .
National Police Chief Bambang Hendarso Danuri told reporters in Jakarta Friday the militants planned to declare a Muslim state after killing Mr. Yudhoyono , state officials and foreign guests during an independence day celebration on August 17 .
Danuri said the militants also planned to seize several luxury hotels in Jakarta and Java island and kill foreigners , including Americans .
The hotel attacks would be similar to the November 2008 siege of hotels in Mumbai that killed 166 people .
The police chief says the plots were uncovered during a series of raids across Indonesia since February , when a terrorist training facility was discovered in the Sumatran island province of Aceh .
London police say religiously motivated hate crimes have soared 600 percent since the July 7 suicide bombings .
Authorities report 269 incidents in the British capital in the three weeks since the attacks .
Only 40 such crimes were reported during the same period last year .
The attacks include verbal and physical assaults and vandalism of property including mosques .
Officials warn that such attacks could alienate the Muslim community at a time when police need its cooperation .
The four bombers in the July 7 attack were Muslims , but many young Muslims say they are angered over police stopping and searching their bags in the subway .
British Home Office official Hazel Blears denied Tuesday that Muslims are being targeted in the searches .
Burma 's military junta has begun to dismantle a military intelligence unit formerly headed by disgraced Prime Minister Khin Nyunt .
Former officials say 2,000 of an estimated 10,000 military intelligence members were retired or transferred on Wednesday .
The unit is expected to be completely disbanded by the end of the month .
The National Intelligence Bureau , which was headed for two decades by Khin Nyunt , has been at the center of a wide-ranging purge following his firing and arrest in October on corruption charges .
More than 14,000 prisoners have been released in the past several weeks after the government said they were wrongly imprisoned by military intelligence .
Iraqi officials say a suicide car bomber has struck an army recruitment center in Baghdad , killing at least four people and wounding more than 30 others .
Al-Qaida-linked insurgents claimed responsibility .
West of the capital , authorities say insurgents opened fire Tuesday on Iraqi soldiers in the town of Khalidiyah , killing four troops and wounding several others .
Separately , gunmen shot and killed a Baghdad university professor and his son in Baghdad , as the academic drove to work .
Meanwhile , the Iraqi parliament adjourned today for about an hour , to protest the alleged mistreatment of a lawmaker at a U.S. checkpoint in Baghdad .
The U.S. military said it is investigating the incident .
Iraqi politicians continue talks on forming a new government .
Some lawmakers say they expect a government to be announced by the end of the week .
Some infromation for this report provided by AFP , AP and Reuters .
Michaella Krajicek of the Netherlands has easily won the final of the women 's Hobart International tennis tournament in Australia .
The unseeded Krajicek broke the serve of fifth-seeded Czech Iveta Benesova five times en route to a 06-Feb , 06-Jan victory .
Krajicek called it one of the best matches of her career , while Benesova apologized to the crowd for her lackluster performance .
Benesova later said four tough matches in the tournament 's opening rounds had taken their toll on her .
Krajicek celebrates this tournament win the same week she celebrated her 17th birthday .
She is the half sister of 1996 Wimbledon champion Richard Krajicek and she credits him with helping her tennis game during the last year .
The upper house of the U.S. Congress has approved $ 300 million to help victims of violence in west Sudan 's Darfur region and support peace talks between the Khartoum government and southern rebels .
The senate bill , passed Tuesday , also calls for sanctions on Sudan 's government and authorizes money for the deployment of more African peacekeepers in Darfur .
Earlier , a top U.N. official warned of impending chaos in the Darfur region - blaming both the Khartoum government and rebels for the worsening situation in the 22-month conflict .
Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairman Richard Lugar said the Darfur crisis shows the " importance of a long-term investment in Africa 's future . "
Pakistani police say gunmen have shot and killed a Pakistani intelligence official as he left a mosque following Friday prayers .
Police say the suspects shot the official Friday in Charsadda in northwestern Pakistan and fled in a car .
The motive for today 's killing was not immediately known .
It took place in a region where pro-Taliban militants are active .
This is the third Pakistani intelligence official to be killed in recent weeks .
Two were shot and killed late last month in the southern port city of Karachi .
Police in Afghanistan say 25 Taleban rebels and four security guards were killed when insurgents ambushed a private convoy in the western part of the country .
The attack took place late Friday in the Bakwa district of western Farah province .
In other news , NATO artillery rounds killed one Afghan civilian and wounded five others in the country 's eastern Kunar province Saturday .
It is not clear if the artillery fire was aimed at insurgents or part of a military exercise .
Aid groups say that more than 230 Afghan civilians have been killed this year in operations by NATO and U.S.-led troops .
NATO officials have said they are reviewing military operations in Afghanistan to prevent the killing of civilians
The family of a former Iranian defense official has denied that he defected to the West .
Speaking to state media in Tehran , Elham Asghari , the daughter of Ali Reza Asghari accused Israel and the United States of abducting her father .
Asghari 's wife Ziba Ahmadi said her husband had an olive oil business in Syria , and vanished in December while on a trip to Turkey .
Before retiring from the government , Asghari was a deputy defense minister and a commander in the elite Revolutionary Guards .
Last week , an Arab newspaper , Al Sharq al Awsat , reported that Asghari is currently in northern Europe , being debriefed by American intelligence , before flying to the U.S. Western reports suggested that Asghari defected .
An American newspaper , The Washington Post , citing a U.S. official , said Asghari is providing information on Lebanon 's Hezbollah militia .
Tempers flared in the Iraqi parliament when Shi'ite lawmakers tried to force debate on designating autonomous regions in the country .
The Shi'ite lawmakers tried to discuss their proposal during a stormy session Thursday .
But they were cut off by the speaker of parliament , Mahmoud al-Mashhadani , who said he had not seen the proposal .
The Shi'ites , who dominate parliament , want to establish an autonomous region in southern Iraq , modeled after the Kurdish north .
Sunni Arabs , who fear the proposal could split the country , are concentrated in the resource-poor central and western Iraq .
Northern and southern Iraq are rich in oil .
Iraq 's constitution , which was approved last year , enshrines federalism and allows for the creation of autonomous regions .
Martina Hingis , the former world-number-one tennis star , is making her long-awaited return to competition at Australia 's Hardcourt Championships next month .
The 25-year-old Swiss player is ending her three-year retirement by entering the tournament , which begins on New Year 's Day .
Hingis left the professional tennis circuit in 2002 after suffering a series of injuries .
She said Tuesday , she 's very excited to be making her comeback in Australia , where she has always felt at home .
The Australian Gold Coast tournament will help Hingis prepare for next month 's Australian Open , which she has won three times before .
The Swiss champion has won 40 singles titles and 36 doubles events in her career .
The U.S. Peace Corps has evacuated 16 volunteers and suspended operations in the Caribbean island nation of Haiti amid escalating violence and security concerns .
The withdrawal of the Peace Corps team comes three weeks after the U.S. Department of State issued a travel warning that ordered all non-emergency personnel and U.S. Embassy families to leave Haiti immediately .
The State Department warns of spontaneous violent confrontations between armed groups and an absence of an effective police force in much of Haiti .
Two U.N. peacekeepers from Peru were wounded Thursday when their armored patrol vehicle was attacked by armed gunmen .
More than 700 people , including 40 police officers , have been killed in Haiti since September .
Venezuelan police have shot to death a second person linked to the killing of a top government prosecutor .
Authorities say the suspect was killed Thursday , in a gunfight at a motel in western Venezuela .
Authorities also say they found explosives in his car .
Both the man and a lawyer killed in a gunfight with police on Tuesday were suspected in the November 18 murder of prosecutor Danilo Anderson .
He was killed when explosions ripped through his car as he drove through the Venezuelan capital .
Mr. Anderson had been overseeing a case against hundreds of opposition politicians , businessmen and former military officers involved in a 2002 coup that briefly ousted President Hugo Chavez .
There has been a global shift in dietary habits towards calorie rich foods , as well as a universal decrease in exercise .
By and large , the world 's population is getting fat .
Losing that weight is not as easy as it is to put on .
But VOA 's Melinda Smith has more on a recent study that uses a simple tool to help those who need to lose weight .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has called on the new Palestinian leadership to show it wants peace by ending propaganda against Israel .
Mr. Sharon told members of his Likud political party Thursday that anti-Israel incitement in Palestinian schools and media is more dangerous than any weapon .
He urged the Palestinian leadership to end the demonizing of Israel and Jews , which he called " the root cause of suicide bombings and terrorism . "
In the past , Mr. Sharon has insisted that Palestinian security forces dismantle militant groups before peace talks begin .
Palestinian cabinet minister Saeb Erekat rejected Mr. Sharon 's demand , saying Israel should resume negotiations without preconditions .
Mr. Sharon 's remarks come amid renewed international efforts to restart the Middle East peace process .
Argentina 's President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner and Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin have held talks in Moscow focusing on trade and economic relations .
Mr. Putin Tuesday praised the economic ties between the two countries as he welcomed the Argentine leader .
He said the two countries could cooperate in atomic energy , space and high-technology .
The Argentine leader expressed support for easing visa restrictions between the two countries .
President Fernandez is heading a delegation of some 100 Argentine business leaders during her two-day visit .
The Argentine leader is to meet with Russian President Dmitri Medvedev on Wednesday .
Officials of the two countries will sign a statement on strategic partnership and a number of other documents on bilateral cooperation .
This is the first visit to Russia by an Argentine leader in 10 years .
The U.N. Human Rights Commission has adopted a resolution condemning human rights abuses in Sudan 's troubled Darfur region .
The resolution , passed by consensus Thursday without a formal vote , blames both pro-government Arab militia and rebels in Darfur for the violations .
The Associated Press reports the measure specifically condemns the violence against civilians , sexual violence against women and girls , and the destruction of villages .
It was approved after the European Union withdrew a more strongly worded document that would have condemned the Sudanese government for its role in the violence .
Khartoum is accused of backing Arab militia fighting rebels in Darfur .
The United Nations estimates the conflict has left 1,80,000 dead and more than two million others displaced .
Police in Nepal Thursday detained at least 760 Tibetan exiles who were protesting outside the Chinese embassy in Kathmandu .
Witnesses say police scuffled with some protesters , many of whom were hauled away in police trucks .
Nepal is home to about 20,000 Tibetans who fled their homeland after a failed uprising against Chinese rule in 1959 .
Exiles have been staging near-daily protests since March , when Chinese forces brutally suppressed demonstrations in the Tibetan capital , Lhasa .
Activists have intensified anti-China protests recently , to coincide with the Olympic Games in Beijing .
On Friday , the night of the Olympics opening ceremony , Nepalese authorities detained some 1,300 protesters in Kathmandu .
Pakistan 's Finance Minister Abdul Hafeez Shaikh is scheduled to join urgent economic talks at the International Monetary Fund in Washington Wednesday , as his nation copes with the aftermath of devastating floods .
The director of the IMF 's Middle East and Central Asia Department , Masood Ahmed , says flood damage is hurting Pakistan 's tax revenue , just as relief efforts are drastically raising expenses and the nation faces " massive " reconstruction costs .
Pakistan already was working to pay back an $ 11 billion loan from the IMF that was helping the nation cope with the global economic crisis .
In return for the loan , Pakistan had promised to tighten economic policies and cut expenses .
The IMF 's Masood says those budget targets will have to be revisited .
But he adds that the crisis is still unfolding , making it difficult to assess the economic picture .
A group of U.S. astronomers say there is a chance an asteroid could hit the planet Mars by the end of next month .
Stargazers in Arizona discovered a 50-meter wide asteroid in November that was designated " 2007 WD5 . "
Astronomers at the U.S. space agency NASA 's Near-Earth Object Office are tracking the object and say it may pass within 48,000 kilometers of Mars by January 30 .
The astronomers say there is a one-in-75 chance the asteroid will strike the planet on that day .
The asteroid is compared to a similar object that struck Siberia in 1908 with the energy of a three-megaton bomb and destroyed tens of millions of trees .
NASA officials say if the asteroid does hit Mars , it will do so near the location of its Opportunity rover , which has been exploring the Martian surface for three years .
Iran says it will continue processing uranium , despite European threats to seek U.N. sanctions over Tehran 's suspected push to develop nuclear weapons .
Speaking Sunday , Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki said any attempt to seek sanctions will create a no-win situation that will have consequences .
Tehran insists its nuclear intentions are peaceful .
Iran resumed uranium conversion work last month , triggering the collapse of talks with European negotiators offering financial rewards if Iran promised to abandon its nuclear work .
Iran has said President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad will suggest ways to resolve the crisis when he arrives in New York for a global summit set for Wednesday .
The 35-member board of the International Atomic Energy Agency convenes next week in Vienna , where it could hear European or U.S. proposals to send the Iran matter to the U.N. Security Council .
Venezuela has exhumed the remains of 19th century independence hero Simon Bolivar for DNA testing to determine if Bolivar was poisoned by his enemies .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez rejects the generally accepted account that Bolivar died of tuberculosis almost 200 years ago in Colombia .
President Chavez believes Bolivar was murdered .
The Venezuelan president became emotional Friday at the exhumation he ordered .
He wrote on his Twitter account that he wept at seeing at what he called Bolivar 's " glorious skeleton . "
National television showed footage of white-clad technicians alongside Bolivar 's coffin .
Earlier this year , Paul Auwaerter , an American scientist from Johns Hopkins University , said he believed arsenic prescribed as a medical treatment contributed to Bolivar 's death .
However , Auwaerter says he does not support the assassination theory and is concerned the Venezuelan government is distorting his research .
Organizers of the Dakar Rally have cancelled the 12th stage in the motorcycle section so riders can mourn the death of Italian Fabrizio Meoni .
Cars and trucks are still competing in the leg , which runs from Kiffa , Mauritania to Bamako , Mali .
The motorcyclists will be flown to Bamako .
Meoni won the Dakar motorcycle title in 2001 and 2002 .
Before he died Tuesday , the Italian rider was in second place overall behind French rider Cyril Despres .
Meoni , known as the Lion of the Desert , was killed in a crash one day after Spain 's Jose Manuel Perez died from severe injuries sustained in a crash during last Thursday 's seventh stage .
The KTM Motorcycle team is urging its riders to withdraw from the rally , but has left that decision to the individual riders .
The 8956-kilometer rally ends in Dakar , Senegal on Sunday .
Burma 's opposition National League for Democracy party is marking its 17th anniversary with another call for the release of its leader , Aung San Suu Kyi and other political prisoners .
About 300 party supporters , along with foreign diplomats , UN officials , representatives of other political parties and the media attended a low-key ceremon Tuesday , at party headquarters in Rangoon .
During the ceremony , NLD members read a statement calling for the release of Aung San Suu Kyi , party vice chairman Tin Oo and all other political prisoners .
The NLD was founded in 1988 after widespread pro-democracy demonstrations were violently suppressed by the military .
The military government held a general election in 1990 , but refused to hand over power after a landslide victory by the NLD .
NASA scientists say they are " flabbergasted " to find that soil on Mars appears rich enough to grow such Earth-bound plants as asparagus .
U.S. space researchers revealed the results of their first " wet " chemical analysis of Martian dirt Thursday and said it is not as acidic as expected , appearing to have the requirements and nutrients to support life .
The sample was taken two weeks ago by the Mars Lander Phoenix , then heated to over 538 degrees Celsius .
At that point , the sample released water vapor .
The scientists said the the dirt is similar to that in a typical backyard .
As exciting as the scientists find the discovery , they point out that they can study only the chemistry of Mars , not whether anything has ever lived there .
A Chinese state-run oil company is offering to buy U.S.-based Unocal Oil for $ 18.5 billion in cash , more than a rival offer by U.S.-based Chevron Corporation .
The deal would more than double the oil and gas output of China National Offshore Oil Company and increase its reserves by more than 80 percent .
The company says such a sale would not hurt U.S. markets .
Chevron says it stands behind its merger agreement with Unocal , which has been approved by the Federal Trade Commission .
Chevron warned that a merger with a Chinese firm would be subject to extensive U.S. government regulatory review .
A competing company would also have to pay Chevron a $ 500-million fee if it broke up the Unocal-Chevron deal .
Pakistani troops shut down three FM radio stations Friday after the stations aired a speech by a pro-Taliban cleric .
The military said it confiscated a large quantity of illegal arms , ammunition , audio cassettes , and what it described as " provocative literature . "
At least seven suspected militants who worked at the stations were arrested .
The raids took place in Pakistan 's Swat Valley , a restive resort area in Pakistan 's northwest .
On Thursday , the stations had broadcast a recording of a fiery speech by Maulana Fazlullah , a radical Muslim cleric who has tried to enforce Taliban-style Islam in Swat .
Pakistan 's security forces have been battling Fazlullah 's supporters since last year .
Afghan president Hamid Karzai has announced a program to recruit tribesmen in border areas to augment security forces doing battle with the Taleban .
Mr. Karzai said Sunday in a speech to tribal elders from eastern provinces that he does not want to form militias .
The purpose of recruiting civilians , he said , was to strengthen the districts against terrorist attack .
He said the additional forces would be under government command .
Meanwhile , officials in London said a British soldier was killed and two others seriously wounded in a firefight with suspected Taleban forces in Helmand province .
The U.S. military said a coalition soldier was killed by a roadside bomb in Ghazni province .
Also Sunday , unidentified gunmen killed four Afghan road workers in Kandahar .
Local officials said the men were also robbed of several thousand dollars .
Country Singer Kenny Chesney was named the Entertainer of the Year and took the Album of the Year award at the Country Music Association 's Annual Awards ceremony in Nashville , Tennessee late Tuesday .
Singer Martina McBride was named Female Vocalist of the Year .
The Song of the Year and Single of the Year awards went to the song " Live like you Were Dying , " written by Tim Nichols and Craig Wiseman and peformed by Tim McGraw .
Gretchen Wilson was the winner of the Horizon Award for best new artist .
Her debut album Here For the Party sold three million copies this year .
Also during the nationally televised program , singer - songwriter Kris Kristofferson was inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame .
Several people have been killed in a gunbattle in Nigeria between government soldiers and heavily armed militants who attacked an oil pumping station .
Brigadier General Elias Zamani said some of his men and some of the attackers were killed in the shootout , which began Sunday morning at a Royal Dutch Shell facility at Benisede in the Niger delta .
Shell said some of its workers had been injured .
According to Shell , the attackers arrived in speedboats , burned down staff living quarters , damaged the facility and left .
On Wednesday , attackers bombed a pipeline near Benisede and kidnapped four foreign oil workers - an American , a Briton , a Bulgarian and a Honduran - from a nearby Shell platform .
Negotiations are underway for their release .
Shell says it is evacuating its workers from Benisede because of the insecurity in the area .
President Bush has signed an executive order freezing the U.S. assets of Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko and nine other senior government officials in the former Soviet republic .
The move bars Americans and U.S. companies from doing business with any of the officials .
White House spokesman Tony Snow said in a statement Monday that the Lukashenko government is corrupt and responsible for human rights abuses as well as undermining Belarusian democracy .
President Bush told Congress when he announced his decision to freeze Belarusian assets that there is no place in Europe for such a regime .
The European Union froze Lukashenko assets last month and joined the United States in imposing a travel ban on Belarusian senior government officials .
President Lukashenko was elected to a third term in March in a vote the West calls a fraud .
Mr. Bush has called him Europe 's last dictator .
FBI Director Robert Mueller has asked Congress to renew key provisions of the Patriot Act , a controversial U.S. anti-terrorism law .
The Senate Judiciary Committee is holding the first of several congressional hearings on the Patriot Act Tuesday .
Mr. Mueller and Attorney-General Alberto Gonzales said increased information-sharing powers between law enforcement and foreign intelligence officials is crucial to combat terrorism .
They called on Congress to renew provisions of the law set to expire later this year .
The Patriot Act was signed into law six weeks after the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks .
It broadened the government 's power by making it easier to obtain surveillance and search warrants .
Civil rights advocates , some Republican lawmakers and many Democrats have criticized the law , saying it is being used to violate peoples ' constitutional rights .
Burma 's military government has sentenced a senior opposition National League for Democracy figure to an additional 60-day prison term , just as he completed a seven-year sentence for alleged corruption .
The wife of opposition leader Than Nyein , Khin Aye , told VOA Monday the family had expected him to be released along with other political prisoners on Friday .
Last week , military rulers began releasing nearly 4,000 prisoners they said were wrongly detained by the recently disbanded National Intelligence Bureau .
Sources in Rangoon told VOA Monday that only a few hundred prisoners , including key opposition figure Min Ko Naing , have been released .
They say no detainees were released on Monday .
There are about 20 political prisoners held in Burmese jails , including three elderly members of parliament .
Opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi and her top deputy , Tin Oo , remain under house arrest .
Iraqi lawmakers loyal to radical Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr say they have pulled out of parliament 's ruling Shi'ite coalition .
Al-Sadr 's parliamentary bloc said late Saturday it decided to quit Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki 's United Iraqi Alliance because the government had not responded to its demands .
Earlier this week , pro-al-Sadr lawmakers threatened to withdraw from the ruling alliance unless the government improved security and public services .
Al-Sadr 's faction controls 30 seats in Iraq 's 275-member parliament .
Another Iraqi Shi'ite movement , the Fadhila Party , withdrew its 15 seats from the United Iraqi Alliance in March due to a dispute about Cabinet seats .
Moqtada al-Sadr pulled his six ministers out of Iraq 's Cabinet in April when Prime Minister Maliki refused to set a timetable for U.S. troops to leave Iraq .
Britain 's largest Sunni Muslim group has issued a religious edict condemning the London terrorist bombings calling it part of a perverted ideology .
In this CCTV image , the four London bombers are seen arriving at Luton railway station , July 7 , 2005
The Sunni Council issued a fatwa Sunday , saying the July 7 attacks have no Islamic justification .
The edict condemns all forms of terrorism and those who carry out such attacks .
Suicide bombers attacked three London subway trains and a double-decker bus , killing more than 50 people .
A British newspaper says Britain 's domestic intelligence agency , MI-5 , investigated one of the four suspected bombers last year , but determined he was not a threat and did not put him under surveillance .
British officials had no comment .
Egyptian and Palestinian officials meet Tuesday with militant Palestinian leaders in Cairo , for talks aimed at consolidating a de-facto ceasefire with Israel .
Delegates were to review a proposal put forward by Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas and backed by Egypt for a one-year truce , during which all factions would agree to halt attacks on Israeli targets .
However , some delegates say such a deal would require more significant Israeli concessions .
Ahead of the talks , Western news reports quoted militant leaders as saying they will not agree to a long-term ceasefire unless Israel promises to end incursions into Palestinian towns , and the targeted killings of militant leaders .
For its part , Israel says a ceasefire must be accompanied by a Palestinian move to disarm and dismantle militant groups .
A fuel shortage is gripping parts of the southeastern U.S. , after two hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico forced oil companies to shut down refineries for a time .
The shortage began earlier this month after Hurricanes Gustav and Ike forced oil refineries to halt production .
Weeks later , many refineries are still producing fuel at reduced levels .
The southeastern U.S. is being hit with higher fuel costs , long lines at filling stations and the widespread closure of gas stations .
Officials in the region say some motorists fear the shortage will continue and are stockpiling fuel .
Authorities say that is driving up demand , especially in the hard-hit states of Georgia , Tennessee and North Carolina .
Consumers have had to wait in line for hours at some gas stations .
Other service stations have put up " No Gas " signs and have placed plastic bags over fuel-pump nozzles .
A Shi'ite militant group in Iraq has released a video of a man it apparently kidnapped , and who appears to be a U.S. contractor who disappeared last month .
The video posted on the Internet shows a man wearing a U.S. military uniform .
He is sitting in front of a flag inscribed with the name of the militant group - League of the Righteous .
On Friday , the U.S. Department of Defense said a 60-year-old American contractor Issa T .
Salomi had disappeared on January 23 , and that search efforts were under way .
The man in the video does not identify himself .
He reads the group 's demands , which include the release of Iraqi prisoners and the withdrawal of U.S. military forces from Iraq .
The group also calls for U.S. security contractors with the firm Blackwater to be brought to justice for crimes against Iraqis .
An influential Iranian cleric has called for the arrest of opposition leaders for their role in demonstrations following June 's controversial presidential election .
Hard-line cleric Ayatollah Ahmad Jannati told worshippers at Friday prayers in Tehran that those leaders incited post-election " riots " that resulted in the deaths of at least 30 people .
He did not mention anyone by name .
Jannati , who heads Iran 's powerful Guardian Council , said arresting those responsible is the " first thing " that must be done .
The opposition contends that the June 12 election was fraudulent .
Defeated presidential candidates Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi have called for new elections , sparking the ire of backers of re-elected President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .
Rights groups say hundreds of activists have been detained since the post-election crisis , and that many are still in jail .
The chief of Peru 's prisons has resigned after newspaper allegations that he betrayed the identities of two undercover agents working for the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration .
Benedicto Jimenez strongly denied the reports in Peru 's El~Commercio newspaper , but handed in his resignation anyway .
The newspaper alleged that Jimenez tipped off jailed drug trafficker Fernando Zevallos that he was under investigation by two agents working with U.S. drug officials .
Neither the Peruvian nor U.S. governments have commented .
A University of Washington biologist working with the World Conservation Society says penguin populations have been declining steadily in the southern regions of South America .
In a recently published study , Dee Boersma says life is not going to get any easier for the creatures , because they have to withstand both climate variation and human development .
VOA 's Paul Sisco reports .
Chinese state media say a court in Tibet has imprisoned 17 people for terms of three years to life for their roles in deadly riots and violence in the region last month .
The official Xinhua news agency did not give any other details on the Lhasa court ruling in a brief dispatch Tuesday .
Tibet 's Indian-based government-in-exile says more than 150 people died in a crackdown by Chinese forces on anti-government protesters and rioters .
China blames Tibetan rioters for the deaths of at least 20 people .
China has ruled Tibet for nearly 60 years .
The Communist Party says it freed Tibetans from what it calls " the dark ages " of feudal serfdom .
But refugees accuse Chinese authorities of discrimination and of trying to dilute Tibetan culture .
Romanian President Traian Basescu says authorities are working at home and abroad to free three Romanian journalists who were apparently kidnapped in Iraq .
Mr. Basescu 's comments Wednesday came two days after 32-year-old reporter Marie-Jeanne Ion , 30-year-old cameraman Sorin Dumitru Miscoci and 37-year-old reporter Ovidiu Ohanesian disappeared in Iraq .
Ms. Ion managed to send a quick telephone message to her newsroom saying she and the others were being kidnapped .
Prime Minister Calin Tariceanu says Romanian authorities have not received a ransom demand .
Pakistan says it will soon free 700 Indian fishermen and civilian prisoners , after President Pervez Musharraf ordered their release on humanitarian grounds .
A foreign office spokesman told reporters that the process of their release has already been initiated and they will be released soon .
General Musharraf last week recommended that 800 Indian fishermen should be freed after completing legal formalities .
He also ordered the release of nearly 150 civilians , including 31 Indian Sikhs held after crossing from Iran .
The military leader intervened after an appeal by visiting Indian communist leaders .
The move is one of a series of peace gestures between India and Pakistan .
The nuclear-armed rivals often arrest fishermen for straying into each other 's territorial waters or villagers who inadvertently cross land borders .
President Bush has called again for Congress to approve an immigration reform bill , after Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid pulled the measure off the agenda earlier this week .
In his weekly radio address , President Bush said he understands the skepticism some members of Congress have about certain parts of the legislation .
He emphasized that the bill does not provide amnesty to illegal immigrants .
He said to stay in the country , illegal immigrants must pay a fine , undergo background checks , register with the government , and wait eight years before applying for legal status .
Senators rejected Reid 's effort earlier this week to limit negotiations and schedule a final vote on the bill .
Reid blamed Republicans for the failure , while Republicans said Democrats were trying to rush the bill toward final passage .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has rejected U.S. charges that he and Cuban President Fidel Castro are destabilizing forces in Latin America .
Mr. Chavez said in his weekly radio and television show Sunday that U.S. imperialism is , in his words , " the greatest threat " facing the world .
Last week U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said that Venezuela and Cuba had negatively influenced events in Bolivia , where social uprisings have forced out two presidents in less than two years .
Mr. Chavez and Mr. Castro were shown side by side during the show .
Mr. Chavez had traveled to Cuba to attend the graduation Saturday of over 1,500 medical students who had studied for free on condition they would return to their communities to work .
Interpol says more than 5,000 people across Asia have been arrested in a coordinated crackdown on illegal gambling during the World Cup .
The Paris-based police organization said Friday that almost $ 10 million was seized during the raids on nearly 800 gambling dens in China , Malaysia , Singapore and Thailand .
Sites in Hong Kong and Macau also were raided .
Police targeted betting shops with links to organized crime .
Interpol said the raided shops had handled bets totaling more than $ 150 million .
The crackdown took place between June 11 and July 11 to coincide with the World Cup competition , which captured the attention of millions of sports fans around the world .
Interpol said illegal football ( soccer ) gambling is linked with corruption , money-laundering and prostitution .
It said the operation should have an impact on all of those activities .
Residents in the western U.S. state of Colorado are struggling to cope with their third huge snowstorm in as many weeks .
Forecasters say as much as 20 centimeters of snow is expected to fall on the city of Denver Saturday , while the state 's rural southeastern region could get five centimeters of snow on top of what already covers the ground .
The new storm is carrying winds up to 50 kilometers an hour , hampering efforts by the National Guard to airdrop hay bales to feed cattle stranded on snow-packed pastures .
The animals could die of starvation or dehydration if not fed .
The state has still not recovered from two consecutive snowstorms last month .
The first one stranded thousands of passengers traveling in and out of Denver 's airport just days before the Christmas holiday .
United Nations officials say an Afghan driver and a doctor with a German aid agency were killed when their UNICEF vehicle was hit in a rocket attack .
A U.N. staffer was severely injured in the attack , which took place Friday near the eastern Afghan town of Herat .
The vehicle was returning from a routine mission in Badghis province with the three men on board .
Taleban rebels launch regular attacks on Afghan and foreign forces , reconstruction projects , non-governmental organizations and government officials , but most of the violence is in the south and southeast of the country .
In April , unidentified attackers stormed a health clinic in Badghis , gunning down five people .
Roadside bombs , checkpoint attacks and gunbattles with militants in southern and eastern Afghanistan have killed at least 10 Afghan police officers and five NATO coalition soldiers .
Afghan officials say a roadside bomb in the southern city of Kandahar killed a district police chief and two others riding with him in his vehicle on Tuesday .
The Interior Ministry says another roadside bomb Tuesday killed four police officers in Wardak province , just west of Kabul .
In Ghazni province , south of Kabul , local police say militants attacked a checkpoint , killing five officers .
Britain 's Defense Ministry says two British soldiers were shot dead Tuesday in separate incidents in southern Afghanistan 's Helmand province .
A third British soldier died from injuries suffered in combat days ago in Helmand province .
NATO says two other coalition soldiers died in a gunbattle in eastern Afghanistan Tuesday , but did not reveal the service members ' nationalities .
Swedish filmmaker Ingmar Bergman was buried Saturday on his home island in the Baltic Sea .
Family members and close friends , including actresses Live Ullman and Bibi Andersson , attended the private funeral on Faro Island .
Bergman made more than 50 films and is considered one of the most influential directors of the 20th century .
His films , including " Wild Strawberries , " " Cries and Whispers " and " Scenes from a Marriage " explored human relationships , mortality and madness and were tinged with melancholy , anger , and humor .
" The Seventh Seal " includes one of cinema 's most iconic images - a medieval knight playing chess with a person representing Death while the plague rages around them .
Bergman died on July 30 at the age of 89 .
British sprinter Dwain Chambers and his lawyers have appeared in London 's High Court seeking a temporary injunction against his lifetime Olympic doping ban .
In a preliminary hearing on his appeal Wednesday , Chambers challenged the British Olympic Association bylaw that bans athletes with doping violations from all future Games .
His case will be heard next Wednesday .
The 30-year-old Chambers received a two-year suspension for taking the designer steroid THG ( tetrahydrogestrinone ) in 2003 .
If Chambers wins his hearing next week , the judge will issue an injunction to let him compete next month at the Beijing Olympics .
But he must still qualify for the team by finishing either first or second in the 100-meters at Britain 's Olympic trials this weekend .
A full hearing on his challenge against the BOA rule is expected to be held by next March .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon is in the United States to rally support from Jewish groups for the planned Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip .
Mr. Sharon will have a series of meetings in New York and then address a prominent lobbying group , the American-Israel Public Affairs Committee , Tuesday in Washington .
No meetings with U.S. officials are planned .
On the flight to New York , Mr. Sharon said he will not postpone the start of the pullout from mid-August , despite Israeli reports that his military chiefs want to delay because of recent Palestinian attacks on settlers in Gaza .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas arrives in Washington later this week , at the invitation of President Bush .
Mr. Abbas says he will push for political and economic support when he visits the White House Thursday .
The nation 's official measurer does some really cool stuff One giant room on the NIST campus is filled with exotic milling , machining , and other industrial equipment .
Here , specialists make instruments for NIST researchers , who in turn test everything from bullets to football helmets .
They invent things , too .
NIST scientists developed a device that turns computer documents and electronic messages into Braille for the sight-impaired .
These days , NIST is especially hard at work on nanotechnology , cybersecurity , and efforts to create a nationwide " smart " electric grid .
The agency that standardized fire hoses and once re-measured and corrected the exact length of a meter has a brand-new complex that is testing and measuring matter as small as an atom .
The U.S. Agency for International Development ( USAID ) says it will donate nearly $ 8,40,000 to Catholic Relief Services to help alleviate Malawi 's severe food shortage .
The agency says the money will provide seeds and fertilizer that small farming households can use for planting in coming weeks .
In September , it promised $ 4,00,000 to the U.N. Children 's Fund to monitor the nutritional status of Malawi 's children .
The U.S government agency has already donated more than 50,000 metric tons of food to Malawi through the U.N. World Food Program .
Experts say poor rainfall across Malawi this year , combined with inadequate supplies of fertilizer , adversely affected the country 's staple corn ( maize ) crop .
In October , the government declared a national disaster and appealed for help .
Aid agencies say five million of Malawi 's 12 million people need food aid .
Egyptian archaeologists have discovered the mummified remains of a doctor they say lived more than 4,000 years ago .
In an interview with official state media , Egypt 's government antiquities chief , Zahi Hawass , says archaeologists found the mummy in Saqqara , south of Cairo , during cleaning work .
He says the doctor , whose name was Qar , was buried along with bronze surgical instruments , earthenware containers bearing his name and 22 bronze statues of gods .
Hawass says the mummy and the decorations on the lid of the wooden sarcophagus are well-preserved and in ideal condition .
Archaeologists first discovered the tomb in 2000 , but did not find the sarcophagus until recently .
Israeli police say they have detained three Hamas lawmakers in Jerusalem .
Police say the Hamas minister for Jerusalem affairs , Khaled Abu Arafa , was detained Monday along with Mohammed Abu Teir and Ahmed Abu Atoun .
They were questioned on suspicion of organizing a rally on Jerusalem 's Al Aqsa mosque compound to raise money for the Hamas organization .
The three men have denied the charge .
Israel bans all Palestinian political activity in east Jerusalem .
The Al Aqsa mosque compound houses the third-holiest site in Islam , but also marks Judaism 's most sacred spot - the ruins of biblical Jewish temples .
Israel considers Hamas a terrorist organization .
Hamas is sworn to Israel 's destruction .
Human Rights Watch is calling on Hezbollah militants in Lebanon to immediately stop firing rockets into civilian areas in Israel , referring to the attacks as " war crimes . "
A statement issued Saturday by the New York-based organization says militants have launched 2,500 rockets into mostly civilian areas in northern Israel since July 12 .
The organization has also documented the Israeli military 's use of force that has killed hundreds of Lebanese civilians .
But it says crimes by one side in a conflict never justify crimes by another .
Human Rights Watch said Hezbollah militants claim that some of their attacks are aimed at military bases in Israel .
But the rights organization says most attacks appear to be directed at civilian areas such as hospitals , schools and businesses .
A human rights group is calling on the United States to investigate what it calls " newly uncovered " deaths of U.S-led coalition prisoners in Afghanistan .
In an open letter to Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld , Human Rights Watch says the newly uncovered cases highlight the U.S. government 's failure to establish accountability for abuses .
Earlier , Human Rights Watch had identified three cases , including that of Sher Mohammad Khan who died one day after he was arrested in September during a raid on his family 's home near the eastern city of Khost .
But now the rights watchdog has identified two more unreported deaths , taking the toll of deaths in U.S. custody in Afghanistan to six .
The group says four of these cases fall in the category of alleged murder or manslaughter .
Iraqi police say a roadside bomb exploded Thursday near a convoy carrying Abed Theyab , the country 's higher education minister .
Theyab escaped unhurt .
Officials say the blast occurred in central Baghdad .
At least two civilians were wounded in the attack .
Another roadside bomb blast in central Baghdad today killed an Iraqi security official .
Violence in Iraq has fallen sharply in recent months , but roadside bomb attacks are still a daily occurrence , often targeting soldiers , police and government officials .
Pope John Paul beatified the last ruler of the Austro-Hungarian Empire and four European nuns and clerics Sunday in an open-air ceremony at St. Peter 's Square in the Vatican .
The Catholic church 's elevation of Habsburg Emperor Charles ( Karl ) has been criticized because he authorized the use of poison gas against Italian troops during World War I .
Also advancing on the road to sainthood today was a 19th century German nun Anne Catherine Emmerick , whose visions inspired director Mel Gibson 's controversial film , " The Passion of the Christ . "
In addition , John Paul beatified Italian nun Maria Ludovica de Angelis , who worked with sick children in Argentina in the mid-20th century , and two French clerics , a 25-year-old monk who died in 1903 and an 18th century priest , who founded an order of nuns .
Beatification is the final step before possible sainthood in the Roman Catholic Church .
U.S. President Barack Obama says building a strong middle class is key to helping the country heal its economy .
In his weekly address Saturday , Mr. Obama said the upcoming Labor Day holiday is a chance to reaffirm a commitment to American workers .
The president touted some of his administration 's initiatives , including tax cuts for working families and investment in construction projects that he says will create jobs .
His address followed a new report showing the U.S. unemployment rate rose last month to 9.6 percent , although private employers added about 67,000 jobs .
In the weekly Republican Party address , U.S. Representative Geoff Davis called for greater scrutiny of federal rules and regulations he said are a burden to small business owners .
Davis has introduced legislation that would have Congress vote on rules proposed by federal agencies if the regulations are expected to have an economic impact greater than $ 100 million .
United Nations officials in Kosovo say an international police officer was killed when a U.N. vehicle exploded Thursday in the town of Prizren .
Officials declined to give the name and the nationality of the victim .
They said an explosive device probably caused the blast , but said authorities are still investigating .
U.N. police and NATO-led peacekeepers took over security duties in Kosovo in 1999 , when the Serbian province became an international protectorate .
Winning the women 's European football championship has given Germany sole possession of first place in the latest FIFA world rankings for women .
Previously , the Germans shared the top spot with the United States , which is now second .
Germany defeated third-ranked Norway last Sunday in the European final , 03-Jan .
Brazil is the fourth ranked women 's team and France is fifth .
Rounding out the latest top 10 are Sweden , South Korea , China , Denmark and Italy .
Afghan officials have released an American imprisoned in 2004 for running a private jail .
After serving more than two years of a three-year sentence , Brent Bennett was freed and flown out of Afghanistan on Saturday .
Bennett was one of three Americans convicted of torturing Afghan suspects in a vigilante counter-terrorism operation .
In September 2004 , a Kabul court sentenced one of three , Edwin Caraballo , to eight years in prison while Bennett and alleged ringleader Jonathan Idema received 10-year terms .
In March 2005 , a judge , Abdul Latif , reduced their sentences .
Caraballo was released in April , while Idema has about three years remaining on his reduced sentence .
Idema claimed his operations were coordinated with the U.S. Defense Department and Afghan authorities .
Both governments denied the claim .
Insurgents seeking to disrupt Iraq 's national elections later this month have killed another election official , bringing to at least seven the number of election workers killed in recent weeks .
Police say the election supervisor was shot as he left a Baghdad polling station Thursday .
Also Thursday , three officials from a leading Kurdish political party were killed in an ambush in Mosul , and a U.S. soldier was killed and three were wounded in a roadside bomb blast .
Earlier Friday , a minibus full of civilians collided with a U.S. tank north of Baghdad , killing six Iraqis and injuring eight .
And in a separate development , Iraqi and U.S. officials say 28 prisoners from the Abu Ghraib prison near Baghdad escaped Thursday night while being transported to another facility .
None of them are suspected insurgents .
Indian and Pakistani officials have met in Islamabad to discuss opening their disputed Kashmir border to help relief efforts for victims of the massive earthquake that killed some 55,000 people .
Foreign ministry officials from the two sides were to discuss allowing Kashmiris to cross the heavily militarized Line of Control , the cease-fire line that divides the Himalayan region that the South Asian rivals have fought two wars over .
Both governments have expressed a willingness to open the border but have failed to resolve differences on how to do it .
U.N. officials say opening the border could help the relief effort - which has been hampered by funding shortages .
Meanwhile , the U.S. Geological Survey says a 5.5 magnitude aftershock struck northern Pakistan early Saturday .
There were no immediate reports of damage or injuries .
New Orleans is set to host its first major professional sporting event since Hurricane Katrina struck last August .
The National Basketball Association 's New Orleans Hornets return to their home city to play the Los Angeles Lakers .
The team will play only two more games in the devastated city this season and only six next season .
The Hornets have established a temporary home in Oklahoma City .
Wednesday night 's game against the Lakers will be played in the New Orleans Arena in front of a capacity crowd of about 17,000 , including NBA Commissioner David Stern .
The arena was used as a shelter for evacuees during the hurricane and it suffered some flood damage .
The Hornets average attendance this season is nearly 4,000 more than last season , but the team 's owner says he still plans to return the team to New Orleans for the 2007 - 2008 season .
Israel launched a series of air strikes on the Gaza Strip Sunday , killing seven Palestinian militants .
Israeli government spokesman Mark Regev says the strikes were in retaliation for a Hamas attack Saturday on an Israeli cargo crossing at the Gaza border .
Hamas militants in Gaza drove two cars packed with explosives into the border crossing , killing four of the militants and wounding 13 Israeli soldiers .
Israeli military officials say the attack may have been part of a larger plot to kidnap Israeli soldiers .
Hamas claimed responsibility for the bombing and promised to stage more attacks to break Israel 's blockade on the Gaza Strip .
Hamas has controlled Gaza for nearly a year .
Israel says its blockade is pressuring militants in the Palestinian territory to end daily rocket fire on Israeli towns across the border .
A former head of Iran 's Revolutionary Guards says he will run for president , posing a conservative challenge to incumbent Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .
Mohsen Rezai has criticized Mr. Ahmadinejad 's handling of the economy , which suffers from inflation and depressed revenues due to the fall in oil prices .
Rezai is also critical of Iran 's two main political factions , the moderate Reformists and the conservative Principlists , and has floated the idea of a coalition government uniting the two .
Candidates must register for the poll in early May .
Elections are set for June 12 .
The family of American journalist Jill Carroll has issued another public appeal for her release , days before a deadline set by her kidnappers in Iraq .
Jill Carroll 's family made the appeal Tuesday in a statement released by the press freedom group , Reporters Without Borders .
The journalist 's father , Jim Carroll , said his daughter and thousands of other reporters try to bring truth to the world every day , and he said that is especially important in Iraq right now .
The family also appealed for the release of two Iraqi journalists held hostage , Reem Zeid and Marwan Khazaal .
Jill Carroll was reporting for the Christian Science Monitor when she was kidnapped January seventh .
The militants holding her hostage have demanded that all women in prison in Iraq be freed .
They have threatened to kill her unless their demands are met by February 26 .
Officials from top oil-producing nations have promised to try to cut soaring oil prices when they meet in Vienna on Wednesday .
Leaders from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries said Tuesday they are likely to agree to raise daily output by a 5,00,000 barrels .
But some analysts say the increase will do little to cut prices , currently around the $ 55 mark .
Meantime , Saudi Arabia 's Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi called on developed nations to build more oil refineries to help satisfy their growing needs for gasoline .
Romanian officials say four new cases of a deadly strain of avian flu have been found in birds in a remote village in the Danube River delta .
Romania 's agriculture minister , Gheorghe Flutur , said British lab tests confirm four dead chickens in the village of Caraorman carried the H5N1 strain of the virus that has killed more than 60 people in Asia since 2003 .
China 's Agriculture Ministry also confirmed Monday that bird flu was the cause of illness among chickens , ducks , and geese last week in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region and central China 's Hubei province .
On Sunday , U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Mike Leavitt said it would take the United States at least three to five years to produce 300 million doses of a vaccine to protect Americans from a possible pandemic .
Economic activity is limited to the exploitation of natural resources , including petroleum , natural gas , fish , and seals .
Puerto Rico has one of the most dynamic economies in the Caribbean region .
A diverse industrial sector has far surpassed agriculture as the primary locus of economic activity and income .
Encouraged by duty-free access to the US and by tax incentives , US firms have invested heavily in Puerto Rico since the 1950s .
US minimum wage laws apply .
Sugar production has lost out to dairy production and other livestock products as the main source of income in the agricultural sector .
Tourism has traditionally been an important source of income with estimated arrivals of more than 3.6 million tourists in 2008 .
Part of Romania during the interwar period , Moldova was incorporated into the Soviet Union at the close of World War II .
Although the country has been independent from the USSR since 1991 , Russian forces have remained on Moldovan territory east of the Dniester River supporting the Slavic majority population , mostly Ukrainians and Russians , who have proclaimed a " Transnistria " republic .
One of the poorest nations in Europe , Moldova became the first former Soviet state to elect a Communist , Vladimir VORONIN , as its president in 2001 .
VORONIN served as Moldova 's president until he resigned in September 2009 , following the opposition 's gain of a narrow majority in July parliamentary elections and the Communist Party 's ( PCRM ) subsequent inability to attract the three-fifths of parliamentary votes required to elect a president .
Moldova 's four opposition parties formed a new coalition , the Alliance for European Integration ( AIE ) , which acted as Moldova 's governing coalition until December 2010 .
Moldova experienced significant political uncertainty in 2009 and 2010 , holding three general elections ( in April 2009 , July 2009 , and November 2010 ) and four presidential ballots in parliament , all of which failed to secure a president .
Following the November 2010 parliamentary elections , a reconstituted AIE-coalition of three parties formed a government , but remains two votes short of the three-fifths majority required to elect a president .
These uninhabited , barren , sub-Antarctic islands were transferred from the UK to Australia in 1947 .
Populated by large numbers of seal and bird species , the islands have been designated a nature preserve .
Following its heyday as a global maritime power during the 15th and 16th centuries , Portugal lost much of its wealth and status with the destruction of Lisbon in a 1755 earthquake , occupation during the Napoleonic Wars , and the independence of its wealthiest colony of Brazil in 1822 .
A 1910 revolution deposed the monarchy ; for most of the next six decades , repressive governments ran the country .
In 1974 , a left-wing military coup installed broad democratic reforms .
The following year , Portugal granted independence to all of its African colonies .
Portugal is a founding member of NATO and entered the EC ( now the EU ) in 1986 .
In January 2011 , Portugal assumed a nonpermanent seat on the UN Security Council for the 2011 - 12 term .
A MAN committed a murder , and was pursued by the relations of the man whom he murdered .
On his reaching the river Nile he saw a Lion on its bank and being fearfully afraid , climbed up a tree .
He found a serpent in the upper branches of the tree , and again being greatly alarmed , he threw himself into the river , where a crocodile caught him and ate him .
Thus the earth , the air , and the water alike refused shelter to a murderer .
A MAN finding a frozen Viper put it into his bosom .
" The coldness of the human heart , " he said , with a grin , " will keep the creature in his present condition until I can reach home and revive him on the coals . "
But the pleasures of hope so fired his heart that the Viper thawed , and sliding to the ground thanked the Man civilly for his hospitality and glided away .
Health officials in Turkey say a third child of the same family has died of bird flu in the eastern Turkish city of Van .
Doctors say the 11-year-old girl , Hulya Kocyigit died Friday .
Her 14-year-old brother died Sunday , and her 15-year-old sister died Thursday .
Health officials say that some 25 people in Turkey - mostly children - are being treated for possible bird flu .
The World Health Organization is investigating the outbreak - the first one among humans outside east Asia .
A spokeswoman in Geneva says there is no evidence of human-to-human transmission , but said the development foreshadows a global pandemic .
Authorities in neighboring Azerbaijan are testing dead birds in the southern part of the country for signs of bird flu .
Meanwhile , Indonesia says it has budgeted $ 940 million to fight bird flu over the next two years .
Singer , songwriter , and producer Ryan Tedder from the band OneRepublic has written hit songs for artists like Jennifer Lopez , Natasha Bedingfield , and Hillary Duff .
Now , Ryan is recording hit songs with his band , OneRepublic , and their new album Dreaming Out Loud .
VOA 's Larry London met with Ryan Tedder when he toured the Washington area .
It can sound like musical instruments or , it can sound like nothing you have ever heard before .
An emerging musical form called ' beatboxing ' is n't exactly singing .
But the music is created only by using a human voice and mouth , lips , tongue , nose and throat .
London played host recently to the highlight in the beatboxing calendar : an international convention at the South Bank Arts Center .
The convention is an opportunity for beatboxers from around the world to meet in person and try out their skills .
Catherine Drew brings us this new form of music .
South Africa 's ruling party has accused U.S. health officials of using Africans as " guinea pigs " and covering up possible adverse effects of a drug used by pregnant women infected with the AIDS virus .
The statement by the African National Congress comes after a string of reports that U.S.-funded trials in Uganda sparked safety concerns about the drug , Nevirapine .
South Africa currently dispenses Nevirapine for free in public hospitals .
The drug is used to slash the mother-to-child transmission of HIV , the AIDS-causing virus .
This week , the Associated Press reported that in 2002 , U.S. health authorities failed to inform the White House over concerns a single dose of Nevirapine might create resistance to future AIDS medication .
The Bush Administration has since promoted use of Nevirapine in Africa .
U.S. health officials said Friday that trials found only a small number of cases where adverse reactions might be attributed to Nevirapine .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas is reported to have told his security forces to use " an iron fist " to maintain the current cease-fire with Israel .
Palestinian news reports say Mr. Abbas told Palestinian police in the Gaza Strip Wednesday that they must not allow anybody to break the calm .
The reports quoted Mr. Abbas as saying whoever wants to sabotage the truce with rocket fire or shooting must be stopped , by force if necessary .
Last month , Mr. Abbas persuaded armed Palestinian factions waging a more than four year violent uprising against Israel to maintain a de~facto truce .
Israel says it will not resume peace talks until Palestinians dismantle the armed factions .
A Kenyan court has charged two members of parliament and a government minister with committing hate speech while campaigning against the country 's proposed new constitution .
Lawmakers Fred Kapondi and Joshua Kutuny , and Assistant Roads Minister Wilfred Machage , were released Wednesday after each paid bail of about $ 1,250 .
All three pleaded not guilty during a court hearing in Nairobi .
The three men were arrested Tuesday and charged with making inflammatory remarks during a rally last week .
Political tension is running high in Kenya as an August 4 referendum on the new constitution draws near .
On Sunday , multiple explosions struck a Nairobi rally against the proposed charter , killing six people and wounding more than 100 .
No one has claimed responsibility for the blasts .
A group of Kenyan churches against the new constitution blamed the violence on the government , which strongly supports the constitutional reform .
Hundreds of angry villagers in Indian-controlled Kashmir have taken to the streets when security forces killed two civilians after mistaking them for separatist militants .
The Indian army says it regrets Saturday 's incident in Dragmulla village north of Srinagar .
It ordered an investigation of the shootings .
Another civilian was killed during a clash between Indian troops and militants in the same district .
Meanwhile , in Srinagar , shops , schools and offices were closed during a general strike to protest the death of a civilian in the city earlier this week .
Local authorities say police shot dead a college student as he was about to hurl a grenade at them , but residents say he had no militant connections .
French tennis great Mary Pierce has withdrawn from the ASB Classic women 's tennis tournament in New Zealand next week for undisclosed medical reasons .
Now ranked 29th in the world , Pierce is a former Australian Open and French Open champion .
She was to be seeded third at the Auckland tournament .
Her agent sent confirmation Thursday to tournament director Richard Palmer that Pierce had an injury on Thursday .
Despite her absence from the New Zealand event , it is not clear if Pierce will play at the Australian Open in Melbourne , where she won in 1995 .
In November , Pierce was suffering from a right shoulder injury , which forced her to pull out from the French Fed Cup team and a semifinal against Spain .
Cypriot President Tassos Papadopoulos says the divided island can not afford another failed reunification attempt Mr. Papadopoulos told the United Nations General Assembly Sunday that revived talks need thorough preparation and what he calls an honest assessment of whether success is possible .
He said Turkey must recognize that the only settlement can be a single state with no Turkish military presence in the north .
Cyprus has been split since 1974 between an internationally-recognized Greek Cypriot south and a Turkish Cypriot north , which only Turkey recognizes .
A plan proposed by U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan would reunify the island as a loose federation .
Turkish Cypriots voted for the plan in a referendum last year while Greek Cypriots rejected it .
Leaders of the protests that all but shut down Ecuador 's oil industry for the past week are preparing to engage in talks with the country 's government .
Protest leaders say they have suspended the demonstrations in order to talk , restoring calm in the country 's northeast , where two provinces remain under a state of emergency .
Meanwhile , Venezuela says it will lend crude oil to Ecuador .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez said Sunday his country will assume Ecuador 's oil commitments at no cost .
Most Ecuadorian oil exports go to the United States .
The protesters sabotaged oil facilities in a demand for jobs and infrastructure improvements .
Ecuador 's state-run oil firm , Petroecuador , which usually produces over 2,00,000 barrels of oil a day , produced only 33,000 during the protests on Saturday .
Government officials say it will take until at least October for normal production to be resumed .
Chinese officials say a gas explosion has trapped at least 50 coal miners deep underground .
Officials say the blast occurred before dawn Thursday at a mine in northern Hebei province .
The condition of the miners is not immediately known .
The latest accident in China 's notoriously dangerous mines comes one week after an accidental explosion killed 21 miners in Sichuan province in southwestern China .
The European Union has approved Russia 's entry into the World Trade Organization , moving Moscow one step closer to membership in the trade body .
Russian Economy Minister Elvira Nabiullina and EU Trade Commissioner Karel de Gucht signed an agreement on Tuesday resolving outstanding bilateral issues that had prevented EU approval of Russia 's entry bid .
European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso called the signing a " milestone " in the process .
Russia , the largest economy outside the WTO and the EU 's largest trading partner , applied for membership in the WTO in June 1993 .
Moscow must still negotiate the final terms of its entry into the trade organization .
But Barroso said that Russia becoming a WTO member in 2011 is now a " realistic perspective . "
Pakistan says its troops have raided a madrassa , or Islamic seminary , in the North Waziristan tribal region , killing a suspected militant in a shootout and arresting seven others .
A military statement Wednesday says security forces raided the Abu Shoaib madrassa in the semi-autonomous region bordering Afghanistan .
Officials say the school was being used as a recruiting center for militants .
The statement says security forces seized a large supply of arms , ammunition , explosives and documents during the raid .
President Pervez Musharraf has said he plans to close those madrassas that do not register with the government by December 31 .
Pakistan , a key anti-terrorism ally of the United States , has been trying to flush out foreign militants from the region for almost 18 months .
The area is also considered a possible hideout for al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden .
The African Union has given the Sudanese government and Darfur rebels 24 hours to end fighting in the vast desert region .
It says after that time it will report any cease-fire violations to the United Nations Security Council .
The pan-African body issued the warning Friday in Abuja , Nigeria , where mediators and representatives from both sides are gathered for peace talks .
The negotiations have stalled amid allegations of renewed fighting .
Earlier Friday , the commander of the African Union 's observer force in Darfur , Nigerian General Festus Okonkwo , briefed mediators on the situation , saying the Sudanese government appears to be preparing a major military offensive in the region .
He also detailed truce violations by the government and rebels in Darfur and said a huge amount of weapons have poured into the region over the last two weeks .
U.S. officials say Secretary of State Hillary Clinton will visit Africa next week on a trip aimed at highlighting the Obama administration 's commitment to making Africa a priority in U.S. foreign policy .
The State Department says Clinton will begin her seven-nation trip August 5 , when she attends the U.S.-Sub Saharan Africa Trade and Economic Cooperation Forum in Nairobi , Kenya .
The forum is designed to help increase trade between the U.S. and African countries .
During her visit to Kenya , she will also meet with the president of Somalia 's transitional government , Sheikh Sharif Amed .
Clinton will also visit South Africa , Angola , the Democratic Republic of Congo , Nigeria , Liberia and Cape Verde .
Clinton 's visit takes place less than a month after President Barack Obama visited Ghana .
The State Department says this is the earliest in any administration that both the president and secretary of state have traveled to Africa .
Thousands of people gathered Friday inside Egypt 's most important mosque to protest the Israeli offensive in Lebanon .
Demonstrators at Cairo 's al-Azhar mosque chanted slogans in support of the Hezbollah militia following prayers .
The crowd also criticized the Egyptian government for its refusal to express support for Hezbollah .
There were no reports of violence during the Cairo protest .
However protesters in Iran Friday threw bricks and explosives at the British Embassy in Tehran , damaging the building .
Iranian demonstrators accused the British government of being an accomplice in Israel 's fight against Hezbollah .
Meanwhile , several Arab foreign ministers say they will hold an emergency meeting in Beirut Monday to express solidarity with Lebanon .
The ministers last met in Cairo in July to call for a cease-fire in Lebanon .
A project aimed at providing inexpensive computers for millions of children in developing countries has hit a snag .
The program is called " One Laptop Per Child " ( OLPC ) and the Intel Corporation is pulling out of the project .
Intel is the world 's largest computer chipmaker , and it was providing money and expertise .
Intel officials left the board of directors of the OLPC non-profit group after a disagreement over the company 's continuing support for its own effort to build and sell cheap laptops using new technology .
OLPC had wanted Intel to work on the One Laptop Per Child computer exclusively .
Iran 's intelligence minister says authorities have arrested more than 10 people this year on charges of spying on the country 's nuclear program .
The official IRNA news agency quoted Intelligence Minister Ali Yunesi as alleging that those detained since March were working for the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency and the Israeli spy agency , Mossad .
He said three of the detainees were staff members of Iran 's Atomic Energy Organization .
He did not reveal the identities of the detainees .
Last month , Iran agreed to suspend its uranium enrichment activities under a deal with European governments .
But on Tuesday , international diplomats said Tehran is still continuing uranium enrichment , exploiting a loophole in the deal .
The United States accuses Iran of secretly trying to build nuclear weapons .
Tehran denies the charge .
The U.N. World Food Program , WFP , says it has suspended food convoys to Sudan 's strife-torn western Darfur region after rebels attacked a village in nearby West Kordofan and government forces retaliated .
A U.N. statement says the WFP halted three convoys of 70 trucks carrying food aid intended for Darfur after what it called a major attack by the rebel Sudanese Liberation Army , SLA , against the market town of Ghubaysh Monday .
The statement says the attack , which prompted retaliation from Sudanese forces , follows a series of clashes in Darfur between government troops , allied militias and rebel groups .
Sudan 's government and Darfur rebels recently suspended talks after trading charges of cease-fire violations .
Tropical Storm Ernesto is due to strike Cuba early Monday after dumping heavy rains on Haiti and the Dominican Republic Sunday .
The U.S. National Hurricane Center says the storm is expected to return to hurricane strength with wins of about 120 kilometers-per-hour as it approaches Cuba .
Tens of thousands of residents on the eastern part of the island have been evacuated .
Ernesto was at hurricane strength early Sunday , but was later downgraded to a tropical storm .
It dumped heavy rains on flood-prone and mudslide-prone areas of Haiti .
The storm is predicted to cross Cuba , then intensify again as it heads north toward the Gulf of Mexico and the Florida Keys - a string of U.S. islands dividing the Atlantic Ocean from the Gulf of Mexico .
A Cuban independent journalist has become the sixth imprisoned dissident to be freed by Cuba 's communist government this week .
Relatives of Edel Jose Garcia say he was freed Thursday following a medical checkup at a prison hospital in Havana .
Few other details were given .
The six dissidents that have been freed this week are among 75 pro-democracy activists jailed last year after a government crackdown .
Among those freed earlier this week were well-known dissident writer and poet Raul Rivero , opposition politician Osvaldo Alfonso Valdes and economist and journalist Oscar Espinoso Chepe .
The men were sentenced to lengthy jail terms on charges they conspired with the United States to overthrow President Fidel Castro .
On Wednesday , at least 18 other jailed Cuban activists were transferred to a prison hospital in Havana amid speculation they may also be released .
British police have charged three more suspects with conspiracy to commit murder in the alleged plot to blow up passenger jets heading to the United States .
Mohammed Yasar Gulzar , Nabeel Hussain , and Mohammed Shamin Uddin are scheduled to appear before a London judge Wednesday .
This brings the number of suspects charged so far in the alleged terror plot to 15 .
Five others are still in custody while five have been freed .
A number of suspects are also being held in Pakistan .
British authorities accuse them of planning to use liquid explosives to destroy as many as 10 airliners , killing thousands of people .
Police had been monitoring the suspects for months .
Authorities made the arrests more than two weeks ago , believing the suspects were about to carry out their deadly plans .
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has named Pakistani diplomat Ashraf Qazi as his new special representative to Sudan .
Mr. Ban made the announcement Tuesday at a news conference with the south Sudan President Salva Kiir in Juba , the southern Sudanese capital .
Qazi was chosen to replace Jan Pronk , who was expelled last year after criticizing Sudanese army actions in war-torn Darfur .
The secretary-general praised Qazi for his wide and extensive diplomatic skill .
Qazi currently serves as the U.N. envoy to Iraq .
Mr. Ban 's stop in Juba is part of a six-day trip in which he will also visit Libya and Chad .
More than four years of fighting between rebels , the government and militia groups has killed an estimated 2,00,000 people and displaced more than two million others .
Syria is rejecting President Bush 's charges that it sponsors terrorism , saying the claims are " useless " and aimed at appeasing conservatives in the United States .
Speaking Thursday on Arab television , Syrian Information Minister Mehdi Dakhlallah said " everyone " knows Syria is cooperating in the fight against terrorism .
He criticized Washington for including Lebanon 's Hezbollah on its list of terrorist organizations , saying the group is singled out by the United States because of its opposition to Israel .
In his State of the Union address , President Bush accused Damascus of allowing terrorists to use Syrian and Lebanese territory to attack Israel and " destroy every chance of peace " in the Middle East .
Hezbollah battled Israel during the Jewish state 's 22-year occupation of southern Lebanon , and continues to skirmish with Israeli forces in disputed border areas .
Monday Americans honor the life and legacy of the slain civil rights leader Martin Luther King , Jr.
President Bush is marking the annual King holiday with a speech in Washington .
The president began his day with a short trip to the U.S. National Archives to view the 1863 Emancipation Proclamation , which declared an end to slavery in the United States .
He said it was a fitting way to start his observance of Martin Luther King Day .
" Today we celebrate the life of an American who called Americans to account when we did n't live to our ideals , " said the president .
Mr. Bush will speak at length at a King ceremony at Washington 's Kennedy Center .
Similar programs are being held around the country highlighting community service and Reverend King 's non-violent campaign for equal rights .
Ruling that stripped many politicians of amnesty on past corruption cases Mr. Zardari and key leaders of his Pakistan People 's Party ( PPP ) met in Islamabad to discuss the impact on his government .
The Supreme Court on Wednesday threw out a decree that offered amnesty protection to more than 8,000 people , including Mr. Zardari and his top allies .
As president , Mr. Zardari is still immune from prosecution , but members of the opposition party are calling for his resignation .
Pakistan 's anti-corruption body , the National Accountability Bureau , has placed about 250 officials on a travel ban list aimed at preventing suspects from fleeing the country .
The list includes four Cabinet members , including two from the ruling party and two from the minor MQM party .
At least 52 politicians have been summoned to appear before corruption courts .
French Interior Minister Brice Hortefeux says Saudi Arabia has warned of an al-Qaida terrorism threat in Europe and against France in particular .
Hortefeux told French radio and television Sunday that European intelligence agencies received the warning in the past few days .
He said the threat is real and that the government is on alert .
Earlier this month , the United States , Britain , and Japan warned their citizens of possible terrorist attacks in Europe after Western intelligence officials uncovered a plot by al-Qaida-linked militants based in Pakistan for terror attacks in major British , French and German cities .
The officials said the attacks could be similar to the 2008 terrorist strike on Mumbai , India , where near-simultaneous attacks by Islamic militants killed 166 people and wounded many more .
A U.S. court has found a former CIA contractor guilty of assaulting an Afghan detainee , who later died of his injuries .
The federal jury in North Carolina issued the guilty verdict Thursday on several assault charges against David Passaro for the 2003 incident .
He was not charged with murder .
Prosecutors had accused Passaro of using his feet , hands and a flashlight to beat Abdul Wali during interrogation sessions .
Wali died from his injuries two days later .
Wali was a suspect in rocket attacks on the U.S. military base in Afghanistan where Passaro was stationed .
Defense attorneys said Passaro was following guidelines approved by his superiors while working as a CIA interrogator .
He is the first U.S. civilian charged for abusing prisoners in Afghanistan since the start of the U.S.-led war in 2001 .
Israeli-Arab lawmaker Azmi Bishara has announced his resignation from the Knesset after leaving the country amid a police investigation .
Bishara says he tendered has resignation Sunday at the Israel Embassy in Egypt .
An embassy spokesman confirmed the move , saying Bishara had handed his resignation to Ambassador Shalom Cohen at a meeting Sunday morning .
Police announced last week that Bishara is being investigated , but have refused to give details .
Bishara has been an outspoken critic of the state of Israel and its Palestinian policies .
He has said he will stay abroad for a time .
The White House says President Bush will attend the summit of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation ( APEC ) forum in November in Busan , South Korea .
A White House statement says Mr. Bush will discuss promoting free trade , boosting economic growth and strengthening regional security cooperation .
Mr. Bush is expected to meet with South Korean President Roh Moo-Hyun on November 17 and hold bilateral meetings with other APEC leaders .
The 21-member APEC group includes Pacific nations who regularly meet to discuss trade , security and other issues .
A White House spokesman said the president will also make several side trips during his visit .
He is scheduled to travel to Beijing on November 19 .
Mr. Bush also plans to make his first visit to Mongolia on November 21 to meet with President Enkhbayar .
Colombia 's ambassador to the United States has resigned over the nomination of a disgraced former president as ambassador to France .
Andres Pastrana , himself a former president , stepped down Tuesday , saying he had little choice after President Alvaro Uribe appointed Ernesto Samper to the post .
The government later announced that Mr. Samper had turned down the post .
Mr. Samper 's four-year presidency , which began in 1994 , was overshadowed by allegations that his campaign accepted five-million dollars in contributions from the notorious Cali cocaine cartel .
He was later cleared by the Colombian legislature .
Colombia has received billions of dollars from the U.S. to help fight illegal drug trafficking .
Mr. Uribe has picked current Foreign Minister Carolina Barco to replace Mr. Pastrana as Bogata 's envoy to Washington .
An Israeli police spokesman said border police shot and killed a 16-year old Arab girl in southern Israel Saturday after she began shooting at a border police base .
The teenager , identified as a Bedouin high school student , had been armed with a pistol .
Also Saturday , Palestinian medical workers said Israeli troops killed two Palestinian gunmen along the border of the Hamas-ruled Gaza Strip .
An Israeli military spokeswoman confirmed troops had shot at several gunmen in northern Gaza and hit two of them .
Palestinian rescue workers said they recovered two bodies at the scene .
The incident is the latest in a string of sporadic violence in Gaza .
The clash follows a period of relative calm in the wake of cease-fires that Hamas and Israel declared in January , ending a three-week Israeli offensive in the impoverished territory .
Medical experts with the U.N. World Health Organization are investigating an outbreak of an unknown illness with a high mortality rate in the Democratic Republic of the Congo .
WHO has issued a statement saying it is unclear exactly how many cases or deaths are involved .
But it says more than half the people affected are under the age of 10 .
The statement listed symptoms that include fever , headache , diarrhea or abdominal pain and vomiting .
An investigation team made up of experts from WHO and the Congolese government have arrived in the central part of the country where the outbreak began .
WHO says the cause of the illness is unknown , but the Congolese government has increased hygiene and sanitation efforts as a precaution .
An opinion poll indicates an overwhelming number of Australians support tough anti-terrorism measures proposed after the London bombings .
The survey of more than 1,400 Australians last week by the Sydney Morning Herald shows three-quarters of respondents support laws that would allow the detention and electronic tagging of terror suspects .
But 60 percent of those surveyed said they were opposed to giving police " shoot to kill " authority when pursuing terrorism suspects .
The new counter-terrorism laws will allow suspects to be electronically watched or held in custody for up to 14 days without charge .
They will also create tighter checks on citizenship applicants and jail terms for inciting violence .
Rights organizations have criticized the measures , saying they threaten civil liberties and violate international law .
German Chancellor Angela Merkel is pushing Iran to resume talks on its disputed nuclear program , or face new sanctions .
She said Thursday that stronger sanctions in the energy and financial sectors would be considered if Iran does not agree to negotiate by September .
The United States and other Western countries believe Iran is developing a nuclear bomb , but Tehran says it is pursuing nuclear energy .
Ms. Merkel met in Berlin Thursday with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , whose country considers Iran its greatest threat .
Mr. Netanyahu said those who call for the destruction of the Jewish state can not go unchallenged .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has called for Israel to be wiped off the map .
An insurgent bomb attack killed at least four Iraqis Tuesday in Baghdad .
Officials say the bomb was aimed at nearby police officers .
Elsewhere in the capital , the U.S. military says five insurgents were killed and seven captured during a massive firefight with Iraqi troops in a Sunni Arab district .
West of Baghdad , heavy fighting erupted Monday between U.S. forces and insurgents hiding in a mosque in Ramadi .
No details on casualties are available .
Iraqi leaders remain deadlocked on forming a new government as fighting raged on across the country .
Parliament was due to open Monday , but that session was put off as Shi'ites , Sunni Arabs and Kurds tried to agree on who will serve as prime minister .
Foreign ministers from 15 African nations are meeting to discuss proposals for strengthening the continent 's role in the U.N. Security Council .
African Union officials helped organize the talks in Swaziland aimed at finding agreement on a set of proposals to add members to the U.N. 's top decision-making body .
One plan under discussion would include six new permanent members without veto power , including two from Africa .
Egypt , Nigeria and South Africa have said they are interested in representing the continent at the Security Council .
Ministers at this week 's meeting are not expected to name candidates for possible new seats .
Last year , a U.N. panel called for studies on expanding the Security Council , which includes five permanent members and 10 seats elected by the U.N. General Assembly .
Japan says it plans to extend the country 's commitment to provide naval support to U.S. troops in Afghanistan .
Japan 's Chief Cabinet Secretary Hiroyuki Hosoda made the announcement Wednesday in Tokyo .
Japan 's maritime self defense forces were dispatched to the Indian Ocean in 2001 to provide fuel for coalition warships in the region .
The mission expires on November 1 , but Mr. Hosoda says Japan 's Parliament is expected to extend the mission for another year .
Another overseas deployment of Japanese self defense forces - to southern Iraq - is scheduled to end in December .
A decision on whether to keep troops there has not been made .
Critics say the deployment violates Japan 's pacifist constitution .
Japanese troops in Iraq can operate only in non-combat zones .
International relief efforts are gearing up to provide emergency aid to the victims of Sunday 's disaster in Asia .
The United Nations says it has already dispatched a relief team and made an initial cash grant .
Among the other offers of help , the European Union on Sunday committed $ 4 million for what officials called the vital period immediately after the disaster .
Individual nations have also been responding with offers of immediate assistance .
Pope John Paul , speaking in Vatican City , urged members of the international community to mobilize assistance for victims .
Scientists say Saturn 's largest moon , Titan , is an exotic world with Earth-like physical features , doused with rains of liquid methane .
In Paris Friday , European Space Agency officials said Titan has a complex network of narrow drainage channels merging into rivers and small oceans .
They say there is strong evidence liquid methane has carved up the surface , similar to the erosion that occurs by rainfall on Earth .
The team of scientists say the moon 's thick nitrogen and methane atmosphere is possibly undergoing chemical reactions similar to those that unfolded on Earth billions of years ago .
Space agency officials say they will be studying the data taken from the Huygens space probe .
The probe landed on the icy moon last week , after an eight-year journey aboard the Cassini spacecraft .
Heavy snow and strong winds have been blamed in the deaths of at least six people across Japan .
Officials believe strong winds caused a high speed train to derail north of Tokyo , killing at least one person .
They say at least 16 others were injured and taken to the hospital after the accident .
Blizzards and some of the heaviest snowfall on record for December have killed at least five people since last week .
The snow also disrupted public transportation and left thousands without electricity .
New warnings of famine conditions and food shortages have been sounded for parts of the Horn of Africa .
The Famine Early Warning Systems Network says more than one million cattle herders in southeast Ethiopia face " extreme food insecurity " due to the lack of normal late-year rains .
The U.S.-funded group says pre-famine conditions have emerged in several districts , including Afder , Liban and Gode .
The group says two million people also need humanitarian aid in neighboring Somalia and an additional one million are facing shortages in Kenya .
It says such conditions are alarming at this time of year , several months before the onset of the dry season , when conditions normally deteriorate to their worst levels of the year .
It says food aid has been dispatched to the affected regions and urged relief workers to act quickly to distribute the aid .
The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe says it has extended its election mission in Ukraine to monitor the country 's upcoming vote .
The 55-member organization says it plans to have more than 1,000 observers in Ukraine for the December 26 election .
It says the mission , from the organization 's Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights , will be the office 's largest ever .
The organization had more than 600 monitors in Ukraine during the November presidential balloting .
In the statement Thursday , the group said the media has what it calls a crucial role in giving voters access to impartial information .
It also said the election administration needs the full support of state authorities .
The organization says it will release preliminary findings the day after the election , and a final report about six weeks after the vote .
Palestinian officials say two Palestinians have been killed in an accidental explosion in a West Bank refugee camp .
The officials say the accident happened early Monday in the Askar refugee camp in the city of Nablus .
They say an old Israeli army shell exploded when a man and his son collecting scrap metal tried to cut through it with a blowtorch , killing the two Palestinians .
President Bush has renewed a one-year ban on imports from military-ruled Burma .
A White House statement Tuesday says the ban is a sign of serious concern about the Burmese regime 's continuing refusal to move towards democracy .
The statement says the United States watches in deep dismay as a country of Burma 's beauty and potential deteriorates under the oppressive weight of the military junta .
Burma 's neighbors in the Association of Southeast Nations have recently condemned the regime 's lack of tangible progress on democratic reforms .
Democratic Republic of Congo 's President Joseph Kabila has fired 11 cabinet ministers , including six who were named in a corruption probe .
State media reported the changes late Monday by Mr. Kabila , who is on a rare visit to the eastern city of Kisangani .
The shake-up includes the ministers of transport , mines , energy , higher education , foreign trade and public works .
In November , the six officials were suspended in the wake of a government report accusing them of possible embezzlement and misuse of state resources .
Also included in Monday 's cabinet reshuffle were the ministers of defense , economy , health , social affairs and labor .
President Kabila 's cabinet includes officials from former rebel groups and other rivals in the nation 's five-year war .
The transitional government was set up as part of a 2003 peace deal .
A senior Afghan official says U.S. and Afghan forces killed about 50 Taleban insurgents Monday in southern Uruzgan province .
Provincial Governor Jan Mohammad Khan said a major Taleban ammunition depot was destroyed in the operation , and that some 25 fighters were captured .
Meanwhile , U.S. soldiers fired warning shots outside the U.S. military headquarters at Bagram Air Base Tuesday , where several hundred Afghans gathered to demand the release of eight villagers arrested in an overnight raid .
The U.S. military said the shots were fired after some protesters threw stones at military vehicles and tried to push down the base 's outer gate .
It said the men were arrested at a compound in Bagram village after troops discovered bomb-making materials there , and that those detained were suspected of planning attacks against U.S.-led forces .
Indonesian diplomats in Iraq say two Indonesian journalists are missing .
Indonesian Embassy officials in Baghdad said Friday the journalists , who work for an Indonesian television station ( Metro TV , ) were heading to Baghdad in a rented car when they disappeared Tuesday in the region of Ramadi .
No other details were immediately available .
Ramadi , 100 kilometers west of Baghdad , has been a center of insurgent activity and frequent clashes between U.S. and Iraqi forces fighting militants .
In another development , the U.S. military says an American soldier was killed Thursday by small arms fire in the northern city of Mosul .
News of the latest violence comes a day after election officials announced that final election results had given the country 's main Shi'ite coalition a slim majority in the interim National Assembly .
Oil prices soared to a record high of $ 62.3 a barrel in New York trading on Monday after Saudi Arabia 's King Fahd died .
In London , Brent crude also hit a record high price $ 60.98 a barrel .
Prices rose more than $ 1.5 , even though analysts expect no changes in Saudi oil policy .
Saudi Arabia is the world 's largest oil exporter and a key member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries .
Rising demand and supply concerns have pushed oil prices upward by 40 percent over the past year .
Afghan officials say they are working for the release of kidnapped Italian aid worker Clementina Cantoni , who was dragged out of her car Monday by gunmen in the Afghan capital , Kabul .
President Hamid Karzai told reporters Saturday that the government knows who kidnapped the CARE International worker and wants her released safely .
His comments followed news reports that one suspected kidnapper , who identified himself as Temur Shah , claimed to have killed her .
The man later reversed himself and said she is still alive .
Aid agencies have pasted hundreds of posters around Kabul appealing for the release of Ms. Cantoni .
The posters say , " Please help Clementina " and praise her for aiding thousands of Afghan widows and war orphans .
Al-Qaida 's second-in-command says the United States failed to kill him with an airstrike earlier this month in Pakistan .
In a videotape broadcast Monday on Arabic language al-Jazeera television Ayman , al-Zawahiri says the attack killed several of those he calls innocents .
Al-Zawahiri asks President Bush if he knows where to find him .
He answers the question himself , saying he is among " the masses of Muslims " and enjoying their support and protection .
Al-Zawahiri also says the United States ignored a truce offer made by al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden in an audiotape broadcast two weeks ago if American forces withdraw from Iraq and Afghanistan .
The White House flatly rejected the offer of a truce , saying the United States does not negotiate with terrorists .
Iraqi officials say they have asked U.S. forces to release six of eight Iraqi female prisoners , but they say the move is not related to the demand of a militant group that kidnapped an American journalist .
The U.S. military has not said whether it would release the six prisoners .
Al Jazeera television aired a video Tuesday from militants holding American journalist Jill Carroll , who was kidnapped January 7 in Baghdad .
The abductors threatened to kill Carroll unless all female Iraqi prisoners in U.S. custody were released within 72 hours .
Wednesday , gunmen in Baghdad ambushed an Egyptian-owned telephone company Iraqna 's convoy , killing at least six security guards .
Officials said two African employees traveling in the convoy are missing and feared kidnapped .
A fugitive Philippines marine officer has surrendered after years on the run , saying he is ready to stand trial over two attempted coups against former president Gloria Arroyo .
Captain Nicanor Faeldon led 300 junior officers in a takeover of buildings in Manila 's posh Makati business district in 2003 .
During his trial four years later , he and several other officers walked out of the courtroom and occupied the deluxe Peninsula Hotel .
He has been in hiding ever since .
Faeldon , who will be presented to reporters Thursday , told a television station he was simply trying to call attention to alleged corruption under former President Arroyo .
He says he is ready to face the consequences now that a new reform-minded president , Benigno Aquino III , has taken office .
Germany has asked the United States to join Europe in ending the isolation of Iran .
German Defense Minister Peter Struck says Iran needs economic and security incentives in order to abandon it 's nuclear ambitions .
He made the comments Saturday , at the 41st annual security conference , meeting in Munich , Germany .
Mr. Struck opened the conference by suggesting a lesser role for NATO in Iraq , while advocating a more direct coordination between the European Union and the United States .
U.S. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld asked attendees to put aside their differences over Iraq and unite in the global war on terrorism .
Other speakers today include top defense officials from Iran , Russia and Egypt .
The security conference is set against the backdrop of NATO 's recent decision to increase troop levels in Afghanistan , North Korea 's claim to have nuclear weapons , and Iran 's developing nuclear capabilities .
Dozens of people have been killed or are missing after parts of Afghanistan were hit by heavy snowfall and icy conditions .
Officials in the western province of Herat say at least 43 people have died in Ghorian district over the last two days .
The heavy snow has caused avalanches , trapping many people , including local shepherds and their livestock .
The bad weather also has blocked roads , preventing the delivery of much-needed food and supplies to parts of the country .
Afghanistan already is facing a severe food shortage due to high grain prices and rebel attacks on United Nations food convoys .
A European Union naval force says Somali pirates have released a Thailand-flagged fishing vessel they had held since last October .
The EU anti-piracy mission ( EU NAVFOR ) says pirates Sunday released the Thai Union 3 from the port of Harardhere after the payment of a ransom .
The size and source of the payment was not disclosed .
The fishing vessel has a crew of 23 Russians , two Filipinos , and two men from Ghana .
The ship 's captain was wounded when pirates hijacked the boat October 29 in Indian Ocean , north of the Seychelles islands .
Somali pirates have made tens of millions of dollars hijacking ships for ransom over the past few years .
On Saturday , the EU force confirmed that pirates had hijacked a Norwegian chemical tanker with a 21-member Burmese crew .
The UBT Ocean was traveling from the United Arab Emirates to Tanzania when it was seized .
An Iraqi Kurd has told the court trying Saddam Hussein that in 1988 Iraqi troops shot dead dozens of Kurdish prisoners and then dumped them into a mass grave .
The witness said he was among the prisoners , but he escaped by pretending he was dead and later climbed out of the grave in the desert of western Iraq .
Following Tuesday 's testimony from five Kurdish witnesses , the judge adjourned proceedings until November 7 .
The trial of the former Iraqi leader and six co-defendants involves the so-called Anfal campaign .
Prosecutors say Saddam 's forces killed 1,80,000 Kurdish civilians in 1988 .
A verdict in Saddam 's first trial for the killing of Shi'ites is expected November 5 .
He faces the death penalty for allegedly ordering the deaths of 148 Shi'ite villagers .
Iran 's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has dismissed international condemnation of his call for Israel to be " wiped off the map " , saying his controversial remarks were " right and just . "
The official IRNA news agency quoted Mr. Ahmadinejad Friday as saying international scorn had no validity .
He said his words express the views of the Iranian people .
Tens of thousands of Iranians staged anti-Israel protests across the country today , trampling on Israeli and American flags and chanting " death to Israel . "
The latest events came amid Israeli calls for Iran 's expulsion from the United Nations .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan said Thursday the rights of all states in the Middle East to live in peace will top the agenda of his upcoming visit to Iran .
Mr. Ahmadinejad made his controversial remarks Wednesday at a Tehran conference called " The World Without Zionism . "
Astronomers using the giant Keck One telescope atop a volcano in Hawaii have discovered a thermal hot spot on Saturn .
Infrared images show a warm polar vortex swirling at Saturn 's south pole , and scientists say the hot spot has the highest temperatures on the planet .
A polar vortex is a large-scale weather pattern , similar to a jet stream in Earth 's upper atmosphere .
Polar vortices found on Earth , Mars , Venus and Jupiter are significantly colder than their surroundings .
Saturn 's hot spot is the first warm polar vortex ever seen in our solar system .
The Pentagon has confirmed that some military commanders in Iraq may have been made aware of possible cases of prisoner abuse throughout the country before mistreatment at the Abu Ghraib prison was uncovered .
A Pentagon spokesman Wednesday said he did not know which military commanders were given a confidential report citing alleged mistreatment of Iraqi detainees by a joint CIA-military team .
The Washington Post newspaper says the report was given to several generals and the top U.S. intelligence officer in Iraq in December 2003 , about one month before a different report uncovered abuse at Baghdad 's Abu Ghraib prison .
The Post says the confidential report alleges the joint CIA-military team known as the TF-121 was physically abusing detainees and using a secret interrogation facility to hide its activities .
The Pentagon said the allegations were taken " very seriously . "
Sri Lankan authorities are investigating a grenade explosion in Trincomalee that killed five young Tamils and injured two others Monday .
Military spokesmen say the incident was a botched attempt to ambush a military patrol , and that victims of the blast may have been associated with Tamil rebel groups .
No government soldiers were injured .
A pro-rebel Internet site , Tamilnet says the victims , all teenaged students , were at a popular beachside gathering spot Monday evening when unidentified men tossed explosives into a crowd .
Trincomalee , the major city in northeastern Sri Lanka , is under government control , but Tamil rebels based in nearby jungles have staged frequent operations in the area .
A truce in 2002 halted decades of conflict between Sri Lankan government forces and the country 's separatist Tamils , but the cease-fire has been threatened by recent outbreaks of violence .
Iran has formally withdrawn its demand to exempt some equipment from an international deal freezing its controversial uranium enrichment efforts .
The withdrawal agreement came Sunday in a letter to the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna .
Western diplomats say the new agreement appears to have averted a showdown with the IAEA over Iran 's demand to exempt about 20 nuclear centrifuges from a pact reached earlier with European governments .
Diplomats from Britain , France and Germany , who brokered the freeze , had threatened to drop opposition to possible U.N. sanctions if Iran reneged on the signed deal banning all uranium enrichment activities .
Under the original deal , Tehran was to have maintained the freeze while the IAEA investigates U.S. allegations that Iran is secretly trying to develop nuclear weapons .
Iran has repeatedly denied the charges .
An explosion rocked Baghdad Monday as U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney arrived for an unannounced visit .
Few details have been released about the blast that occurred shortly after Cheney arrived today .
The vice president is expected to meet with Iraqi leaders and U.S. military officials while in Baghdad .
Cheney 's stop in Iraq is part of a Middle East tour that will take him to Oman , Saudi Arabia , Israel , the West Bank and Turkey .
During his 10-day tour he will cover many issues , including advancing the Mideast peace process , the situations in Lebanon and Syria , Iran 's rising influence in the region and soaring gasoline prices in the United States .
U.S. Senator and presidential candidate John McCain is also in Baghdad to meet with Iraqi and U.S. officials .
Pakistan says a series of explosions in the restive southwestern Baluchistan province has seriously wounded a soldier and damaged railway tracks and communications and power lines .
Officials say two bomb blasts early Thursday in Mastung and Dera Ghazi Khan , located south and west of the provincial capital , Quetta , damaged railway tracks , causing train delays but no injuries .
Another explosion destroyed a high voltage power line in Naushki area southwest of Quetta , disrupting electricity supplies throughout the area .
And , in a remote Kohlu district , a rocket struck the tower of a telephone exchange , cutting phone lines to thousands of customers .
Hours later , a soldier was seriously hurt in a land mine explosion while he was escorting a team of engineers to repair the tower .
President Bush says the United States and Pakistan are allies in fighting terrorism and laying the foundation of lasting peace in the world .
At a banquet in Islamabad in his honor , Mr. Bush said once peace is won , the two partners will share it together .
He said Pakistan should take further steps in advancing democracy , education and social development .
President Musharraf said Pakistan is firmly on the path of economic growth and seeks US help in enhancing it .
He said Pakistan lies at the crossroads of South , West and Central Asia and has the potential of becoming the hub of economic activity .
He said the two countries share the common values of discouraging hate and extremism and promoting inter-faith harmony .
General Musharraf also said the ongoing peace process with India is conducive to finding a solution of the decades-old Kashmir problem .
Royal Dutch Shell says a fire has broken out at one of its oil wells in southern Nigeria .
Shell says firefighters are battling the blaze on a wellhead in the Cawthorne Channel , south of the city of Port Harcourt .
The company says it had to close a flow station , cutting production by almost 38,000 barrels a day .
A spokesman for the oil giant says the cause of the fire is unknown .
The blaze comes one day after a local militant group , the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta threatened to renew attacks against oil installations in the region .
The group said the Nigerian military used a Shell airstrip to launch a helicopter attack .
The military said it attacked barges used by oil smugglers , while the militants said the attack targeted ethnic Ijaw communities .
Militant attacks forced Shell to close other flow stations last month .
The World Bank hopes to raise more than one billion dollars to fight bird flu at a global conference that opens in Beijing Tuesday .
The World Bank has said up to 1.4 billion dollars are needed to combat the deadly virus in developing countries .
A bank official , Jim Adams , says he expects most of the target will be met .
Delegates from more than 80 countries will attend the two-day event .
The money raised will help countries improve health services for flu victims and contain outbreaks among birds .
Meanwhile , medical tests in Indonesia show a 13-year-old girl has died of bird flu , and two other members of her family may also have been infected .
If the girl is confirmed to have died of the H5N1 strain of bird flu , Indonesia 's death toll from the virus would rise to 13 .
The White House says U.S. President George Bush and first lady Laura Bush will attend the opening ceremony of the Summer Olympics in Beijing .
That announcement Thursday is the first confirmation of the president 's plans to attend the August 8 ceremony , despite calls from some U.S. lawmakers and activists for a boycott .
Mr. Bush also will travel to Thailand and South Korea during the August trip .
In South Korea , he will meet with President Lee Myung-bak to discuss ratification of a bilateral free trade agreement .
The U.S. president also will hold talks with senior leaders during his stops in Bangkok and Beijing .
OPEC oil ministers have agreed to prop up sliding oil prices by cutting production by one million barrels a day .
The decision in Cairo Friday comes amid a drop in oil prices from an all-time high of more than $ 55 in mid-October to more than $ 40 now .
OPEC countries had been producing above their quota to meet a strong demand that sent prices to record highs .
The delegates decided to leave the current quota of 27 million barrels a day unchanged .
OPEC fears prices will slide further if inventories rise too fast .
The ministers say cuts will not take effect immediately , because many producers have already agreed to January supplies .
Hundreds of Islamist students in Egypt have marched at three of the country 's universities to call for democratic reforms .
The demonstrators Sunday called on the government to ease restrictions on political activities at universities , and to allow free and fair student elections .
The protests took place on the campuses of Cairo , Ein Shams and Azhar universities .
Many of the protesters were supporters of the banned Muslim Brotherhood movement .
U.S. Senate committee hearings have begun for Judge Samuel Alito on his nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court .
Earlier Monday , President Bush called on U.S. senators to give Alito a " fair and dignified " hearing .
The president had breakfast with his nominee and appeared briefly with him in the White House Rose Garden .
The conservative nominee is expected to face tough questioning from members of the Senate Judiciary committee .
Opposition Democrats , as well as some members of President Bush 's own Republican party , plan to question Alito on his views about presidential powers granted under the U.S. Constitution .
The issue has gained attention since President Bush 's recent admission he authorized U.S. intelligence agencies to monitor telephone calls and emails between people inside the United States and abroad without seeking permission from a special court .
There may be an economic slowdown in the United States now , but some areas of the country continue to boom .
One such place is the capital of the western state of Texas , Austin , which remains popular with high tech companies as well as artists , musicians and filmmakers .
But , as VOA 's Greg Flakus reports from Austin , some longtime residents are worried that the rapid growth threatens a quality of life they call " weird . "
Pakistani officials say a suicide bombing at a funeral for a policeman killed earlier in the day has left at least 27 people dead in the country 's restive northwest .
Police say scores of others were wounded during the latest attack - which took place late Friday as hundreds of mourners gathered in the town of Mingora in the tourist region of Swat Valley .
The police officer died earlier in the day after a roadside bomb blew up his vehicle near North Waziristan 's restive tribal region .
At least two other policemen were killed in the explosion .
Pakistani security forces have been battling Taliban-linked militants in the region , but did not say who was behind Friday 's two attacks .
Indian police have detained the editor of a Hindi-language magazine after he republished Danish cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad that have angered Muslims worldwide .
Officials said Thursday that Alok Tomar , editor of Senior India was taken to a police station in the capital , New Delhi .
India 's government has warned the national media not to publish anything that hurts the feelings of any religious community .
Associates of Tomar told the Associated Press that the magazine had no intention of offending Muslims .
The publication of the Muhammad cartoons first by a Danish newspaper and then by some European newspapers sparked protests and riots around the world , in which dozens of people have died in recent weeks .
The U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee is expected to vote Tuesday on whether to approve John Bolton , President Bush 's controversial pick for ambassador to the United Nations .
Opposition Democrats want to delay the vote so they can further investigate allegations that Mr. Bolton threatened subordinates and withheld information from superiors in his role as undersecretary of state for arms control .
But committee chairman Richard Lugar said in a statement today that it is time for the panel to make a decision .
He said the concerns raised about Mr. Bolton do not warrant rejection of the nomination .
Mr. Bolton has denied the allegations .
Republicans control the committee by a 10-to-eight margin .
If approved by the committee , Mr. Bolton 's nomination goes to the full Senate for a vote .
Brazil says it will repay its entire $ 15.5 billion debt to the International Monetary Fund early , a move lauded by IMF officials .
In Sao Paulo Tuesday , Finance Minister Antonio Palocci said the payment will come from the country 's reserves and be paid before the end of the year .
He said it will save the South American country more than $ 900 million in interest costs .
IMF Managing Director Rodrigo Rato said the move reflects the excellent track record of policy management by Brasilia .
He said the early payment also indicates the growing strength of Brazil 's economy , especially in improving trade and current account surpluses as well as strong inflows of capital into the country .
The early repayment represents an economic turnaround for Brazil , which in 2002 obtained an unprecedented loan from the IMF to avoid a massive default on its debt .
Brazil is South America 's largest economy .
Bosnia 's top war crimes court has indicted four former Bosnian Serb soldiers in connection with the worst massacre on European soil since World War II .
The court Friday charged the four suspects with killing 800 Muslim men and boys as part of the 1995 Srebrenica massacre .
Prosecutors say the soldiers carried out the executions at a farm just outside of Srebrenica with " the aim of destroying a national , ethnic and religious group . "
All four suspects were arrested earlier this year .
The Bosnian war crimes court has put dozens of Bosnian Serbs on trial for complicity in the Srebrenica killings , including former Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic .
About 8,000 Muslim men and boys died during the massacre at the United Nations-protected enclave .
People in China , Korea , Vietnam and elsewhere are ringing in the Lunar New Year Sunday with street celebrations , decorations and gifts .
The 15-day holiday , which is the single most important holiday for Chinese people , is the start of the Year of the Dog .
In Beijing , authorities lifted a 12-year ban on exploding fireworks .
The Beijing Daily newspaper said about three thousand police officers are patrolling downtown areas in case of fire and accidents .
During the new year celebrations , people often give gifts to family and friends .
Animal protection groups are urging people not to give dogs , fearing the animals will end up abandoned .
In Vietnam , the new year is known as " Tet . "
This year , the official media reported a 30 percent increase in the number of foreign tourists arriving just before the holiday .
Rebel forces in Colombia killed 28 soldiers Tuesday in the deadliest assault on government troops in years .
The attack happened near the town of Vista Hermosa , south of the capital city of Bogota , near an area controlled by the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , or FARC .
Military officials say the soldiers were guarding workers as they destroyed crops of coca , the plant used to make cocaine .
The 17,000 strong FARC , along with a smaller guerilla group known as the ELN , has been engaged in a deadly 40-year civil war to topple the government .
It funds its operations mainly through drug trafficking .
Colombian President Alvaro Uribe , who is running for re-election in next May 's presidential vote , has stepped up military efforts against FARC forces in the region .
A series of bomb blasts at the site of a controversial dam project in a remote part of Burma has destroyed cars and buildings and wounded one man .
Officials said the Saturday explosions took place in the early hours of the morning at four locations where the Myitsone Dam is under construction in the country 's northernmost Kachin State .
Authorities say one person sustained slight injuries in the attacks .
Environmental and rights activists have campaigned against the dam .
When built , the dam is expected to create a reservoir flooding an area the size of New York City , covering dozens of villages and holy sites and displacing thousands of local people .
Members of an Iraqi committee charged with drafting a new constitution are meeting Sunday to consider requesting an extension for drawing up the document .
The committee is facing a Monday deadline for making such a request to parliament , or the current date of August 15 stands as the day Iraq 's National Assembly must approve the charter to face a national referendum in mid-October .
Ahead of today 's meeting , committee Chairman Humam Hammoudi is reported by Associated Press to have said he would recommend that the group ask for an additional 30 days to complete a draft document .
Other committee members say no decision has yet been made .
Iraqi legislators have been grappling over constitutional issues such as federalism , dual nationality and the role of Islam .
U.S. officials have been pushing Iraq to move ahead with the constitution .
Authorities in Nepal say gunmen have shot and killed a priest who was the kingdom 's representative on the World Hindu Council .
Police report that Narayan Pokhrel was attacked early Friday in southwestern Nepal , and that one of the priest 's aides was wounded .
Mr. Pokhrel was a popular religious leader in Nepal , who population is predominantly Hindu .
Today had been the final day of a trip he was making through southwestern parts of the Himalayan nation , holding religious ceremonies and seeking financial assistance for charitable groups .
The motive for the priest 's killing is unclear , but one account quotes his nephew as saying that Mr. Pokhrel was gunned down by members of Nepal 's Maoist rebels .
Mexican President Vicente Fox has appointed intelligence chief Eduardo Medina Mora as public security minister to replace his predecessor who died in a helicopter crash last week .
Mr. Medina Mora will take the position of Ramon Martin Huerta who died last Wednesday when the helicopter he was traveling in crashed in mountains near the capital .
At least seven other people on board were also killed , including Federal Preventive Police chief Tomas Valencia .
Earlier this week , President Fox named General Eduardo Martinez to take over Mr. Valencia 's position .
Mexican government officials say all available evidence suggests bad weather caused the helicopter crash .
The Swedish Academy announces the 2005 Nobel Prize in Literature Thursday as members of the institution face a dispute over last year 's choice .
The panel announced the date for this year 's award Tuesday , the same day academy member Knut Ahnlund stepped down after criticizing the writing of last year 's winner , Elfriede Jelinek .
Her work includes frank descriptions of sexuality and conflict between men and women .
Mr. Ahnlund said that selection irreparably damaged the award 's reputation .
But academy head Horace Engdahl dismissed the criticism and said Mr. Ahnlund has not taken part in the award discussions since 1996 .
On Monday , American Thomas Schelling and Israeli-American Robert Aumann won the 2005 Nobel Prize in Economics for their work in understanding conflict and cooperation .
Elton John celebrated his 60th birthday on stage Sunday March 25 , making a record-breaking 60th appearance in New York City 's Madison Square Garden .
Wearing rose-tinted glasses and a black tail coat , the singer-songwriter performed more than 30 hit songs spanning more than four decades .
He recalled two of his most memorable appearances at the storied Manhattan venue : a 1974 date in which John Lennon joined him on stage for the last time , and a performance following the terrorist attacks of September 11 , 2001 .
Elton John 's longtime lyricist Bernie Taupin serenaded him with a chorus of " Happy Birthday , " accompanied by comedians Robin Williams and Whoopie Goldberg .
Elton ended his concert with his first hit single , " Your Song . "
He has sold more than 200 million albums worldwide .
The presidents of Brazil and Bolivia have vowed to resolve their differences over La Paz 's nationalization of its energy industry .
Brazilian leader Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva and Evo Morales of Bolivia met Saturday in Vienna on the sidelines of the European Union-Latin America summit .
Mr. Morales says the neighboring South American nations are allies , and he blamed the media for portraying them as adversaries .
The Bolivian president also says his government will continue to negotiate with Brazil 's state-owned energy giant Petrobras about continuing to operate in Bolivia .
Mr. Morales nationalized Bolivia 's energy sector May 1 , and gave foreign energy companies 180 days to agree to new contracts with the state-owned firm .
He triggered further concerns Thursday when he said foreign oil companies may not be compensated for revenues that have been nationalized .
The U.S. economy has a net loss of 1,59,000 jobs in September , the biggest drop in five years .
Friday 's report from the Labor Department also says the unemployment rate held steady at 6.1 percent .
This report shows more job losses than economists predicted .
This is the last unemployment report scheduled to be published before the presidential election at a time when many voters say the economy is their major concern .
The figures on job losses are based on a government survey of tens of thousands of households .
The jobless rate comes from a separate survey of hundreds of thousands of businesses .
Uganda has dropped criminal charges against a U.S. evangelist and has instead ordered his deportation .
Peter Waldron was arrested in February after police found assault weapons and ammunition in his home .
He was charged with weapons possession under the country 's terrorism law .
Waldron has denied being a terrorist .
Prosecutors have not disclosed the reason for dropping the case .
Pakistan says it has successfully launched a ballistic missile capable of carrying a nuclear warhead up to 2,000 kilometers , the longest range rocket Islamabad has yet tested .
Officials say the Shaheen II missile developed in Pakistan hit its target .
The rocket is said to be capable of carrying all types of conventional and nuclear warheads .
The military says President Pervez Musharraf watched Saturday 's launch , which took place at an undisclosed location .
In a statement , General Musharraf vowed to further upgrade Pakistan 's nuclear capability , but with strict adherence to non-proliferation .
Pakistan and arch-rival India routinely conduct missile tests after informing each other .
Saturday 's test came two days after U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice visited Islamabad and urged a continuation of the peace process between Pakistan and India .
European Union foreign ministers are meeting in emergency session Sunday to try to break a deadlock over membership talks with Turkey one day before those talks are scheduled to begin .
British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw says he understands some nations ' concerns , but abandoning the talks would be a " failure " for the EU .
Austria insists the talks with Ankara should include an alternative to giving Turkey full EU membership .
Turkey opposes this .
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Sunday that EU leaders must decide whether the trading bloc will become a global power , or remain what he called a " Christian club . "
Negotiations for admitting mainly Muslim Turkey are expected to take up to 10 years .
New members of the EU must be approved by all 25 member states .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has strongly denied U.S. charges that he is supporting Colombian rebels or trying to destabilize other countries in South America .
Mr. Chavez Thursday accused the United States of spreading lies and said he wants U.S. officials to prove their recent charges .
U.S. State Department officials say they have mounting evidence that Venezuela - the world 's fifth-largest oil exporter - uses its wealth to buy weapons for guerrillas in Colombia .
Mr. Chavez called the United States a " terrorist state . "
Venezuela is a key oil supplier to the United States .
But Mr. Chavez - a frequent critic of the United States - has been developing closer political and energy alliances with South American countries , China , Russia , India and Iran .
Angola 's government says 93 people , mostly children , have died from an unidentified fever that is similar to the deadly Ebola virus .
Deputy Health Minister Jose van Dunem said Monday that 101 cases of the mysterious illness have been reported at a hospital in northern Uige province .
Local officials are looking for two people diagnosed with the illness who left the hospital .
Mr. Van Dunem says initial tests have ruled out several common diseases , including Ebola .
But he says Angolan officials are awaiting the results of a second Ebola test from the United States .
The World Health Organization has set up a task force to begin studying the deadly fever , which involves vomiting and bloody discharges .
In recent years , Ebola outbreaks have killed hundreds of people in central and southern Africa .
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf says al-Qaida terrorists , Taleban fighters and Kashmiri militants have a formed what he called a " very dangerous " nexus .
In an interview broadcast Monday on the American television network , ABC , Mr. Musharraf said the links among the groups mean officials must work to resolve the ongoing separatist conflict in Kashmir .
The president also said Pakistan 's army continues to look for al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden while battling al-Qaida and Taleban forces inside Pakistan .
He told ABC News that 80,000 Pakistani troops are involved in the effort .
Mr. Musharraf said Afghan President Hamid Karzai recently gave him a list of names and telephone numbers of suspected Taleban allies living in Pakistan , but he said most of the leads were dead ends .
President Bush visits Pakistan and India this week .
Iranian television is reporting that there has been a large explosion near the southwestern port city of Daylam in Bushehr province .
It was not immediately clear what caused the blast , but residents reported seeing an aircraft overhead .
State television says the explosion may have been caused by a fuel tank dropping from an Iranian airplane .
Iran and Russia are building a nuclear reactor in Bushehr , about 150 kilometers south of where Wednesday 's explosion occurred .
Visiting Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero is to sign a deal Wednesday , to sell Venezuela patrol boats and transport planes .
Officials in Caracas say the proposed deal is to include 10 C-295 transport planes , four coastal patrol corvettes , and four smaller patrol boats .
The Associated Press quotes Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez as saying the patrol boats in particular will help in the fight against drug trafficking .
On Tuesday , Mr. Zapatero , Mr. Chavez and leaders of Brazil and Colombia held a one-day summit in Puerto Ordaz , Venezuela to discuss trade , political alliances and terrorism .
The economy of the Democratic Republic of the Congo - a nation endowed with vast potential wealth - is slowly recovering from decades of decline .
Systemic corruption since independence in 1960 and conflict that began in May 1997 has dramatically reduced national output and government revenue , increased external debt , and resulted in the deaths of more than 5 million people from violence , famine , and disease .
Foreign businesses curtailed operations due to uncertainty about the outcome of the conflict , lack of infrastructure , and the difficult operating environment .
Conditions began to improve in late 2002 with the withdrawal of a large portion of the invading foreign troops .
The transitional government reopened relations with international financial institutions and international donors , and President KABILA began implementing reforms .
Progress has been slow and the International Monetary Fund curtailed their program for the DRC at the end of March 2006 because of fiscal overruns .
Much economic activity still occurs in the informal sector , and is not reflected in GDP data .
Renewed activity in the mining sector , the source of most export income , boosted Kinshasa 's fiscal position and GDP growth from 2006 - 2008 , however , the government 's review of mining contracts that began in 2006 , combined with a fall in world market prices for the DRC 's key mineral exports temporarily weakened output in 2009 , leading to a balance of payments crisis .
The recovery in mineral prices beginning in mid 2009 boosted mineral exports , and emergency funds from the IMF boosted foreign reserves .
An uncertain legal framework , corruption , and a lack of transparency in government policy are long-term problems for the mining sector and for the economy as a whole .
The global recession cut economic growth in 2009 to less than half its 2008 level , but growth returned to 6 % in 2010 .
The DRC signed a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility with the IMF in 2009 and received $ 12 billion in multilateral and bilateral debt relief in 2010 .
The economy , one of the world 's smallest and least developed , is based on agriculture and forestry , which provide the main livelihood for more than 60 % of the population .
Agriculture consists largely of subsistence farming and animal husbandry .
Rugged mountains dominate the terrain and make the building of roads and other infrastructure difficult and expensive .
The economy is closely aligned with India 's through strong trade and monetary links and dependence on India 's financial assistance .
The industrial sector is technologically backward , with most production of the cottage industry type .
Most development projects , such as road construction , rely on Indian migrant labor .
Model education , social , and environment programs are underway with support from multilateral development organizations .
Each economic program takes into account the government 's desire to protect the country 's environment and cultural traditions .
For example , the government , in its cautious expansion of the tourist sector , encourages visits by upscale , environmentally conscientious tourists .
Complicated controls and uncertain policies in areas such as industrial licensing , trade , labor , and finance continue to hamper foreign investment .
Hydropower exports to India have boosted Bhutan 's overall growth .
New hydropower projects will be the driving force behind Bhutan 's ability to create employment and sustain growth in the coming years .
The islands have the potential for oil and gas development .
Waters around the islands support commercial fishing , but the islands themselves are not populated on a permanent basis .
Brunei has a small well-to-do economy that encompasses a mixture of foreign and domestic entrepreneurship , government regulation , welfare measures , and village tradition .
Crude oil and natural gas production account for just over half of GDP and more than 90 % of exports .
Per capita GDP is among the highest in Asia , and substantial income from overseas investment supplements income from domestic production .
The government provides for all medical services and free education through the university level and subsidizes rice and housing .
A new monetary authority was established in January 2011 with responsibilities that include monetary policy , monitoring of financial institutions , and currency trading activities .
AN ASS feeding in a meadow saw a Wolf approaching to seize him , and immediately pretended to be lame .
The Wolf , coming up , inquired the cause of his lameness .
The Ass replied that passing through a hedge he had trod with his foot upon a sharp thorn .
He requested that the Wolf pull it out , lest when he ate him it should injure his throat .
The Wolf consented and lifted up the foot , and was giving his whole mind to the discovery of the thorn , when the Ass , with his heels , kicked his teeth into his mouth and galloped away .
The Wolf , being thus fearfully mauled , said , " I am rightly served , for why did I attempt the art of healing , when my father only taught me the trade of a butcher ? '
A FOX invited a Crane to supper and provided nothing for his entertainment but some soup made of pulse , which was poured out into a broad flat stone dish .
The soup fell out of the long bill of the Crane at every mouthful , and his vexation at not being able to eat afforded the Fox much amusement .
The Crane , in his turn , asked the Fox to sup with him , and set before her a flagon with a long narrow mouth , so that he could easily insert his neck and enjoy its contents at his leisure .
The Fox , unable even to taste it , met with a fitting requital , after the fashion of her own hospitality .
Dad 's pager went off , summoning him to the hospital , where he is an anesthetist .
As he raced toward the hospital , a patrol car sped up behind him -- lights flashing .
Dad hung his stethoscope out the window to signal that he was on an emergency call .
Within seconds , came the police officer 's hand in response , dangling a pair of handcuffs out the window .
Australian Justice Minister Chris Ellison says an Australian terror suspect at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba should not be repatriated until he is tried by U.S. authorities .
U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said Thursday the United States would rather have detainees at the Guantanamo Bay prison camp imprisoned by their home countries .
But Mr. Ellison said Friday he does not want suspected terrorist David Hicks to return to Australia until the U.S. justice system had dealt with him .
Mr. Ellison said Australia would have no choice but to release Mr. Hicks without charge because counter-terrorism laws introduced after the September 11 , 2001 attacks on the United States were not retroactive .
However , Mr. Ellison called for a speedy trial for the terror suspect .
Thousands of British Muslims have marched Saturday in London to protest cartoons in Danish newspapers depicting the Prophet Muhammad as a terrorist .
Reports from the scene say the London march was peaceful and that demonstrators appealed for calm .
Officials say Muslim protests also planned in Paris and other European cities .
Meanwhile , the Danish foreign ministry says it has temporarily pulled diplomats from their posts in Iran , Indonesia and Syria after receiving threats .
The Danish embassy in Syria was ransacked last week by protesters angered by the cartoons .
Local media reports say Muslim demonstrations continued Saturday in Indonesia and Bangladesh .
Protests were held Friday in cities across the Middle East as well as in India , Pakistan , Afghanistan , Malaysia , Venezuela and Kenya .
The top NATO commander in Afghanistan says hardfought gains by alliance troops this year could be lost , if Afghan security forces fail to hold ground seized from the Taleban .
In a British radio interview ( BBC ) , U.S. General Dan McNeill said NATO forces have had success this year in driving Taleban fighters from the valleys of Afghanistan 's southern Helmand province .
But McNeill says the Afghan national security forces have not been as successful in holding the captured territory .
He says there is a chance the Taleban could return to the area in coming months , forcing NATO troops to do the clearing work again .
The NATO forces in the opium-producing southern province are mostly British troops .
They say they have recaptured much of the Helmand River valley from the Taleban over the last six months .
President Bush says he is starting the process of picking the cabinet and White House staff for his second term in office .
Mr. Bush , spending the weekend at the presidential retreat , Camp David , in Maryland , did not indicate what changes he is considering for his team .
U.S. media reports , however , say Attorney General John Ashcroft could depart before Mr. Bush is sworn in for a second term in January .
Others reported to be considering leaving include Secretary of State Colin Powell and Homeland Security Chief Tom Ridge .
Also Friday , Iowa , the final undeclared state from Tuesday 's elections , announced Mr. Bush won the state 's popular vote .
With the addition of the midwestern state of Iowa 's seven electoral votes , the president won 286 electoral votes to Senator John Kerry 's 252 .
The State Department has issued a public announcement alerting Americans to recent terrorist attacks in Egypt .
Egyptian soldiers surrounded site where two women opened fire at tour bus in Cairo , Saturday Wednesday 's announcement comes less than a week after terrorists staged two separate attacks in Cairo - one outside the Egyptian museum and the other on a bus carrying tourists .
All three assailants were killed and at least nine people were wounded .
The incidents were part of a string of attacks on tourist sites in Egypt since 2004 .
The State Department says American citizens should maintain heightened awareness while traveling in Egypt .
Turkey 's prime minister says he will quit politics if his ruling Justice and Development party does not win enough seats to form a government alone in Sunday 's elections .
Recep Tayyip Erdogan made the statement Tuesday during a campaign appearance in southern Turkey .
Opinion polls indicate his ruling party will win Sunday 's parliamentary elections .
Mr. Erdogan also challenged his political rivals to make a similar pledge .
In other news , unidentified gunmen killed a Turkish parliamentary candidate in Istanbul .
Turkish media say 42-year-old businessman Tuncay Seyranlioglu was shot in his car late Monday .
Three other people were wounded .
The motive for the attack was not immediately known .
Seyranlioglu was running as an independent in Sunday 's elections .
Seven years ago , the U.S. was struck by the most devastating terrorist attack in its history .
The news media responded to the events of September 11 , 2001 , providing live coverage as events unfolded in a tireless and sometimes heroic fashion .
That reporting is on display in a special gallery at Washington 's Newseum , a museum dedicated to journalism .
VOA 's Tabinda Naeem has more on the exhibit depicting many of the challenges faced that day by the media .
Jim Bertel narrates .
Iraqi police say a double-bombing Wednesday in central Baghdad has killed at least six people and wounded at least 41 others .
Police say a car bomb went off near a traffic police station a few kilometers from where British Prime Minister Gordon Brown met with Iraqi officials .
Moments later , a second bomb exploded nearby .
On Monday , Iraqi police said a bomb killed at least eight policemen at a checkpoint west of Baghdad .
A U.S. government report says Iraq 's police force has accepted recruits with criminal backgrounds and even insurgents , due to poor screening procedures .
The report based on a study by the inspectors general at the Defense and State Departments was released late Monday .
It says there is sufficient evidence to conclude that terrorists or insurgents have infiltrated the ranks of Iraqi police .
It criticizes coalition military personnel for not being able to properly find and screen candidates for the police force .
It says although Iraqi police officers are increasingly visible on the streets , the effort to build up the forces has been a " qualified success . "
Pentagon officials say they are addressing most of the concerns raised by the study , which ended in April , and that police recruiting and training have improved since then .
Venezuela President Hugo Chavez signed a pact with a group of predominately leftist mayors in Nicaragua on Tuesday to provide their communities with cheap oil .
Under the accord , Venezuela will supply oil to the Nicaraguan towns at favorable terms .
While signing the agreement with the mayors at Venezuela 's presidential palace , Mr. Chavez also threw his weight behind leftist candidate and Sandinista leader Daniel Ortega in the upcoming Nicaraguan presidential election .
The oil deal is similar to ones Mr. Chavez has signed with other Latin American and Caribbean countries .
Mr. Chavez indicated Tuesday that the Nicaraguan pact is part of a larger agenda to provide an alternative to trade agreements with the United States .
The main militant group responsible for a string of recent attacks in Nigeria 's southern oil-producing Niger Delta region says it has sabotaged another pipeline belonging to the British-Dutch Shell oil company .
In an e-mailed statement , the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta says its fighters attacked the pipeline late Thursday .
It would be the fourth Shell pipeline the group has attacked this month .
Shell officials have not confirmed the incident .
Militants and gangs began attacking oil facilities in the Delta in late 2005 to demand that more oil revenue be directed to impoverished local residents .
The attacks have reduced Nigeria 's daily oil output by an estimated 20 percent .
The loss of production has contributed to the spike in world oil prices .
In Major League Baseball , the Houston Astros have signed All-Star pitcher Roger Clemens to a one-year , $ 18-million deal making him the highest paid pitcher in the game .
Clemens 's deal tied outfielders Sammy Sosa and Barry Bonds for the fourth-highest average salary in the major leagues .
The right hander , 42 , helped the Astros reach the National League Championship Series in 2004 .
He won 18 games and lost four with an earned run average of 2.98 and 218 strikeouts .
Clemens also won the Cy Young award for pitching excellence for the seventh time in his career .
A security scare rippled through the embassies of Japan , Thailand and Germany in Malaysia Tuesday after what police called suspicious packages were received at the facilities .
Officials in Kuala Lumpur say Japan 's embassy was evacuated after receiving a package containing a liquid substance .
Kuala Lumpur Police Chief Mustafa Abdullah said the liquid appeared to be a harmless oil .
The embassy has since been given the all clear .
Mr. Mustafa said similar packages were sent to the Thai and German embassies .
It is not immediately clear if the packages were part of a hoax .
India and Sri Lanka say peace talks with Tamil rebels should resume soon to prevent the island nation from plunging back into civil war .
The joint call was made after Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapakse met with Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in New Delhi and briefed him about his government 's efforts to restart the talks .
An Indian spokesman said both countries agreed about the need to strengthen the almost three-year-old cease-fire , which is becoming fragile .
The stalemate is on the place of the peace talks .
Sri Lanka 's government wants to hold them in an Asian country , the rebels want them in Norway .
Norway , which brokered the cease-fire , is also urging the two sides to meet immediately to prevent a return to civil war .
Norwegian negotiator Erik Solheim said the recent surge in violence has put Sri Lanka 's truce at risk .
French officials say European Union defense ministers are moving towards a plan to phase out the EU peacekeeping mission in Bosnia-Herzegovina .
Several French diplomats said Wednesday that a majority of EU ministers now support scaling back the EU operation in Bosnia .
The officials spoke to reporters on condition of anonymity after they sat in on an informal meeting of defense ministers in the French city of Deauville .
France currently holds the rotating EU presidency .
A formal decision on the matter is not expected before November 10 , when defense ministers hold a formal summit in Brussels .
The diplomats say the present EU force will likely be replaced by a civilian operation .
NATO peacekeepers were deployed to Bosnia as part of the 1995 Dayton Peace Accords that ended the fighting in the former Yugoslavia .
NATO turned over peacekeeping duties to the European Union in 2004 .
Afghan officials say fierce fighting has erupted between government security forces and Taleban rebels a day after U.S. airstrikes killed as many as 20 suspected militants in southern Afghanistan .
Gunbattles early Monday have left 11 Taleban guerillas dead , along with a local government official and a member of Afghanistan 's security force .
On Sunday , the U.S. military said it had killed 15 to 20 suspected Taleban fighters in an airstrike after coalition forces came under small arms and rocket fire .
Violence in the south and east regions of Afghanistan has increased in the last three months .
Palestinian officials say hundreds of Palestinian security personnel will begin deploying along the Gaza border Friday , in a push to stop militant rocket and mortar fire at Israeli targets in the area .
The move follows late-night negotiations between senior Israeli and Palestinian security and military officials .
The resumption of bilateral talks appears to have averted a threatened Israeli military offensive in Gaza .
For its part , Israel says it will reopen the main border crossing between Gaza and Egypt .
The Rafah crossing was closed last month , after Palestinian militants killed five Israeli soldiers at a nearby army post .
Meanwhile , in the West Bank , Israeli troops shot and killed a 12-year-old boy near Jenin , after apparently mistaking his toy gun for a real weapon .
In southern Gaza , Palestinians say another youth was hit and killed by Israeli gunfire while standing in the street near his house .
VOA 's Ray Kouguell interviewed Professor of Architecture , Mary Comerio , University of California , Berkeley about Haiti earthquake rehabilitation in the months ahead .
Professor Comerio talks about the scope of re-building , the long-range outlook for recovery and how Haiti 's devastation compares with other similar earthquake disasters .
Landslides and heavy rains triggered by a powerful typhoon in the eastern Philippines have killed more than 100 people , with several others missing .
At least 20 were killed when a mudslide poured down from the Mount Mayon volcano in the village of Padang , some 350 kilometers southeast of the capital , Manila .
Authorities say they fear the death toll may rise .
Deaths have been reported in several other areas in Albay province , including the towns of Daraga and Santo Domingo .
Typhoon Durian lashed the island of Catanduanes on Thursday with winds of up to 190 kilometers an hour , and gusts up to 225 kilometers an hour .
The typhoon tore up trees , cut electricity in coastal areas and forced hundreds of residents to flee to higher ground .
The typhoon has since weakened and is moving near Mindoro island , south of Manila , with winds of 150 kilometers per hour .
Kuwaiti authorities say the alleged leader of a terrorist group has died after suffering a heart attack while in custody .
Officials said Amer Al-Enezi died late Tuesday .
He was captured when Kuwaiti security forces stormed a suspected terrorist hideout near Kuwait City about two weeks ago .
Four Islamic militants were killed and three others were captured during the January 31 raid .
Officials described the alleged ringleader as a former mosque preacher and a reputed al-Qaida figure .
Kuwaiti security forces have recently stepped up efforts to combat Islamic militants in the emirate who are plotting to attack U.S. troops and other Westerners .
Kuwait is a staging area for American forces in Iraq .
Hundreds of supporters of radical Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr demonstrated Saturday , in front of government buildings in the relatively quiet southern cities of Basra , Amarah and Kut .
They were demanding an end to electricity and gasoline shortages .
In Baghdad , at least three mortar shells exploded near the heavily protected Green Zone , causing no casualties , but scattering journalists who were arriving for a security briefing .
South of Baghdad , the U.S. military says a U.S. Marine was killed Saturday , while on patrol in Babil province .
And in a separate development , the Iraqi Defense Ministry confirmed a news report that an Iraqi woman trained by Saddam Hussein loyalists in Syria intended to kill the defense minister .
The woman collapsed in the minister 's office before carrying out her mission .
Afghan police say suspected Taleban fighters have killed five police officers in an ambush in southern Afghanistan .
Authorities said Wednesday , the attacks occurred late Tuesday in Helmand province .
The incident comes one day after Afghan police killed two suspected Taleban fighters , including a Taleban commander , during a gunbattle in the same province .
Twelve other fighters were arrested .
Helmand province has been the scene of several clashes in recent weeks .
In late October , at least eight Afghan police were killed in an ambush there .
Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko has demanded parliament rescind its vote to dismiss the government .
He spoke during a special meeting of the Cabinet Thursday and blamed the vote on opposition lawmakers he said are trying to create instability in Ukraine .
Lawmakers voted Tuesday to fire Prime Minister Yuri Yekhanurov 's government over its agreement to pay sharply higher prices for gas imports from Russia .
Top government officials say parliament 's move was illegal .
Mr. Yushchenko had indicated readiness to bring the dismissal before the constitutional court .
But lawmakers Thursday refused to confirm the president 's nominees for constitutional court judges .
Ukraine has begun implementing a constitutional reform that gives authority to appoint and dismiss the government to the parliament instead of the president .
However , the changes have been enacted only partially , pending parliamentary elections in March .
President Bush has signed a new law authorizing him to freeze Sudanese government assets to protest the violence in Sudan 's troubled Darfur region .
The so-called " Comprehensive Peace in Sudan Act of 2004 " encourages the president to impose targeted sanctions .
Among them are a travel ban and a freeze on the assets of government and military officials , and government-controlled businesses .
The mostly non-binding legislation urges Mr. Bush to discourage United Nations members from importing oil from Sudan .
It also calls for the United States to assist in the deployment of additional African Union troops Darfur .
The United Nations has described the violence in Sudan 's western Darfur region as the world 's worst humanitarian crisis , with nearly two million people forced from their homes .
Sudan 's government and Darfur rebels recently suspended talks after trading charges of ceasefire violations .
North Korea has confirmed that a South Korean man sailing a fishing vessel has defected to the communist nation .
The man , identified by Pyongyang 's official Korean Central News Agency ( KCNA ) as 57-year-old Hwang Hong-ryon , fled to the North Wednesday , despite a flurry of warning shots fired by South Korean troops .
It is unclear why the man defected but the KCNA reports he is being questioned by North Korean investigators .
South Korea 's Yonhap news agency says military officials believe the fisherman was drunk .
Yonhap also says Mr. Hwang was born in North Korea and defected to the south with his sister in 1951 .
The two Koreas remain technically at war , having never signed a peace treaty after the conclusion of the 1950 - 53 Korean War .
Authorities in Iraq say a brother of one of Iraq 's two vice presidents has been killed in an ambush in Baghdad .
The brother of Shi'ite Vice President Adel Abdul Mehdi - cabinet advisor Ghalib Abdul Mehdi - and his driver were killed when gunmen fired at their car .
Al-Qaida in Iraq claimed responsibility .
Separately , police say Iraq 's Deputy Trade Minister Dawoud Hassan was wounded when his motorcade was ambushed in the capital .
The U.S. Defense Department says nearly 26,000 Iraqi civilians have been killed or wounded by insurgents since January 2004 .
A report posted on a Pentagon web site says about 80 percent of insurgent attacks during that time targeted U.S. forces , while Iraqis accounted for 80 percent of the casualties .
The trial of ousted Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein and seven co-defendants , which was scheduled to resume Tuesday , has been delayed until Sunday .
A court spokesman told journalists the court decided to postpone the hearings because some witnesses were unable to attend .
Journalists have been waiting for hours for the court to begin its session .
Monday , the court appointed Raouf Rasheed Abdel-Rahman , a Kurd , to temporarily replace the presiding judge who resigned this month after criticism of his conduct of the trial .
In incidents of violence , armed men kidnapped two German engineers from an oil refinery compound in the town of Baiji , north of Baghdad .
Separately , the U.S. military says two soldiers were killed Monday by a roadside bomb in Baghdad , while two Marines were killed in a vehicle accident in western Iraq .
A U.S. judge has ordered the Bush administration to decide by May 15 whether polar bears in Alaska should be on the endangered species list because of global warming .
The judge ruled in favor of three conservation groups , including Greenpeace , that claim the U.S. government delayed a decision on the polar bear issue to avoid addressing global warming .
Environmental groups have argued the existence of the polar bears is threatened by the disappearance of their icy habitat due to global warming .
Under the Endangered Species Act , it is required that a decision to place species on the list be based on science .
The conservation groups say science shows the Arctic is thawing .
An unofficial predictor of U.S. weather has made his forecast , Americans will get an early spring .
A groundhog named Punxsutawney Phil was pulled from his home in a tree stump Friday morning in a small town in Pennsylvania .
He did not see his shadow and , according to an American ritual , that means it will be a short winter .
Every year , thousands gather in Punxsutawney on February 2 for what is known as Groundhog Day .
The crowd cheered at this year 's results .
According to tradition , had he seen his shadow , winter would last another six weeks .
The observance of Groundhog Day in the United States is a carryover of a centuries-old German tradition known as Candlemas Day .
That tradition has grown in popularity in recent years , driven in part by the 1993 film comedy Groundhog Day .
The Polish government has recalled several ambassadors identified in a recent report as having worked for a national intelligence agency accused of having close ties with Russia .
Diplomats to Austria , China , Turkey , and Kuwait have been ordered back to Warsaw .
All were named in a new report on the former Military Intelligence Service , which was disbanded last year .
Critics have said the agency maintained links with Russian authorities well after the fall of Communism in 1989 .
President Lech Kaczynski and his twin brother , Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski , have vowed to root out those in public life with close ties to the communist apparatus .
They have claimed former Russian spies in the Military Intelligence Service have tried to control politics in Poland , but critics of the government say the 400-page report fails to back up those claims .
The U.S. State Department says Americans who plan to travel to Venezuela for the Copa America football ( soccer ) tournament should be aware of continuing security concerns there and possible changes to official entry requirements .
A public announcement issued Friday says Americans considering travel to Venezuela should carefully consider the risks to their safety and security .
Officials warn that violent crime has become a daily occurrence in the capital , Caracas , and that the murder rate there is one of Latin America 's highest .
Additionally , the State Department says Americans should be aware that uncertainties in the availability of tournament tickets has led to local protests .
The announcement urges Americans to monitor Venezuela 's government Web sites and contact its embassy or consulates for information on whether vaccinations are required to enter the country during the tournament .
The Copa America competition begins June 26 and ends July 19 .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has arrived in Poland for the annual March of the Living at the site of two Nazi death camps .
Top Polish officials are expected to join the Israeli leader and about 20,000 others in the three-kilometer walk from the Auschwitz to the Birkenau camps , as the world marks the 60th anniversary of the end of WWII .
Holocaust survivors are joining the march between the camps were the Nazis killed more than one million Jews during the war .
Commemorations were also held in Israel as sirens blared and the nation stopped for two minutes to honor the victims .
At ceremonies in Jerusalem Wednesday , Mr. Sharon said Jews will never again be without protection , a home , and refuge .
The Iraqi government says the June 30 deadline for U.S. troops to withdraw from urban areas in Iraq can not be extended .
Iraqi spokesman Ali al-Dabbagh said Monday the government is committed to the departure timeline in the U.S.-Iraqi security agreement .
A rise in violence has prompted concern about whether Iraqi forces are ready to take over security responsibilities .
Last week , U.S. commanders were considering whether they may need to keep forces in the northern city of Mosul beyond the June deadline , if Iraqi authorities ask them to stay .
The security agreement calls for American forces to pull back from cities by the end of June and the from rest of the country by the end of 2011 .
In the latest violence , a car bomb exploded near the Iraqi Oil Ministry in Baghdad Monday , killing one person and wounding three others .
Indonesia 's president , Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono , has declared the island of Sumatra a national disaster area because of Sunday 's devastating earthquake and tsunami waves .
Emergency officials said the worst-hit area was the northeastern province of Aceh , the scene of decades of separatist violence .
Most of Indonesia 's victims - some 3,000 people - died in the provincial capital , Banda Aceh .
Officials say many of the dead were children swept away in floodwaters .
The toll is expected to rise as more bodies are recovered .
The floods overturned cars and trucks , and bodies were seen caught in the branches of trees .
Most lines of communication to the city have been down since the quake .
Thousands have fled homes that were damaged or destroyed by the floods .
President Bush says prayer speaks to the TRUE strength of America .
In remarks at the 55th annual National Prayer Breakfast Thursday , Mr. Bush said although citizens of the United States come from many faiths , Americans share a profound conviction in their beliefs .
He hailed U.S. servicemembers in war zones around the world , and hailed America as a nation that produces courageous men and women willing to defend their country .
Earlier , the keynote speaker Dr. Francis Collins said the separation of religion and science are not different ideas , but rather , complementary .
A leader of the genome project to identify human DNA , Collins said scientific breakthroughs now provide the world with an unprecedented opportunity to solve many of the major health problems facing the planet .
The National Prayer Breakfast is an annual event attended by the president , members of the U.S. Congress and leaders from around the world .
The International Atomic Energy Agency says Iran has failed to provide details of its plans to resume nuclear fuel research next week .
Spokeswoman Melissa Fleming says a meeting was scheduled in Vienna Thursday to discuss the issue , but that the Iranian delegation did not show up for it .
She added that IAEA chief Mohamed ElBaradei is still seeking clarification from Iran about its plan to resume nuclear fuel research on Monday .
In Washington , U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice expressed hope that talks between Iran and European negotiators can resolve the nuclear dispute .
But she warned that if talks fail , there is strong international support to refer Iran to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions .
Washington accuses Tehran of secretly pursuing nuclear weapons , a charge Tehran denies .
Thousands of anti-war protesters have marched in London joining protests in Japan , Australia and elsewhere in the world ahead of the third anniversary of the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq .
In London , thousands gathered in a square in the city 's center Saturday , chanting anti-war slogans .
Some carried posters called President Bush the " world 's number one terrorist . "
Others posters called for the ouster of British Prime Minister Tony Blair .
Britain has the second largest contingent of troops in Iraq behind the United States .
Organizers say demonstrations over the next three days are part of what they call " global days of action " protesting the war .
Protests were also reported in South Korea , Pakistan , Turkey and Greece .
Organizers say they expect more than 200 protests worldwide today .
The war in Iraq began March 19 , 2003 .
Saddam Hussein has told the court trying him for alleged crimes against humanity that he has been beaten and tortured while in U.S. custody .
Saddam says Americans beat him " on every place " of his body and that he has the marks to prove it .
He made the torture allegations during proceedings which resumed earlier Wednesday .
He spoke after being largely quiet and calm during witness testimony about the 1982 torture and massacre of 140 Shi'ite Muslims in Dujail .
One witness said guards dripped melted plastic on detainees and administered electric shocks .
The deposed Iraqi dictator and seven co-defendants are accused of ordering or carrying out the torture and massacre after Saddam survived an assassination attempt there .
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan says the Sudanese government has not met two of the most important demands of the Security Council on the Darfur conflict - to disarm militias and arrest those who have committed atrocities in the region .
Mr. Annan says violence in Darfur has increased substantially over the last six months , including attacks on civilians and aid workers .
He says the number of people now affected by the war is 2.3 million , more than one-third of Darfur 's population .
His comments are in a report to the U.N. Security Council released on Monday .
Mr. Annan said pro-government Arab militia are carrying out " atrocious crimes on a massive scale . "
He also blamed Darfur rebels , who he says have increased atttacks on government officials and police officers .
Afghan officials say a provincial governor has survived a suicide car bomb attack that killed his bodyguard .
The bomber rammed his explosive-laden car into vehicles carrying Khost governor Arsala Jamal and his entourage Wednesday .
Officials say seven people were hurt in the attack which they call an assassination attempt .
Also Wednesday , NATO says Taleban militants attacked one of its bases in eastern Nuristan province , killing two Afghan soldiers and wounding 11 U.S. troops .
Taleban militants have stepped up suicide attacks and kidnappings over the past 18 months in a renewed campaign to oust NATO and the U.S.-backed Afghan government .
Pakistani officials said five more people have been killed in the southern port city of Karachi , raising the death toll from four days of political violence to at least 36 .
Authorities said the latest victims were fatally shot Tuesday by attackers .
About 50 people have been wounded in the violence , which began Saturday in Karachi .
The unrest coincided with a by-election Sunday to replace a lawmaker killed earlier this year .
Provincial lawmaker Raza Haider from the Muttahida Quami Movement was gunned down in Karachi in August .
The assassination sparked four days of violence that killed at least 85 people .
MQM , which largely represents the Urdu-speaking community , and the rival Awami National Party , representing ethnic Pashtuns , blame each other for the violence .
The city of 16 million people is prone to ethnic and sectarian killings , crime and kidnappings .
Car bomb blasts across Iraq have killed more than 70 people , just hours after former dictator Saddam Hussein was executed for crimes against humanity .
Security officials in Baghdad say three coordinated bomb attacks in a mixed Shi'ite and Sunni area of the city ( Hurriya ) Saturday killed at least 25 people and wounded more than 65 others .
Other blasts killed several more people in the Iraqi capital .
In Kufa , a Shi'ite holy city near Najaf , Iraqi officials say a car bomb in a crowded market killed 31 people and wounded at least 58 others .
It is not clear whether the attacks were related to the execution of Saddam .
Also Saturday , U.S military officials announced the deaths of six American service members , making December the deadliest month for U.S. forces in two years .
Nearly 3,000 U.S. military personnel have been killed in Iraq since the U.S.-led invasion began in 2003 .
A privately-owned Kuwaiti airline is offering free flights to Kuwaiti women who want to return home to vote in parliamentary elections .
The elections are the first in Kuwait that do not exclude women .
Marwan Boodai , the chairman of Jazeera Airways says the airline wants to make sure that Kuwaiti women currently overseas can exercise their new right to vote .
Elections are scheduled for June 29 .
Kuwait passed a law last year granting women the right to vote and run for office .
Rescue workers in flood-swamped southern India continued aid operations Wednesday , as the death toll from the floods climbed past 300 .
British relief agency Tearfund said food , clean water , clothing , bedding and shelter are the most pressing needs for the victims in Andrhra Pradesh and Karnataka states .
Authorities say thousands of victims have yet to be reached .
The flooding -- the region 's worst in decades -- has displaced at least 1.5 million people .
With hundreds of thousands now living in temporary shelters , health workers are focusing on preventing illnesses from breaking out among the survivors .
Authorities are also worried that hundreds of thousands of hectares of flooded farmland could affect food harvests .
Flood waters have been receding , though more rain is forecast in the coming days .
Thousands of Iraqi troops backed by U.S. forces are continuing their push through the northern Iraqi city of Tal Afar , an insurgent stronghold near the borders of Syria and Turkey .
Western news reports say coalition forces were advancing unchallenged Sunday , after encountering stiff resistance Saturday in the city , now largely deserted by its 2,00,000 residents .
Late Saturday , the U.S. military said 141 insurgents had been killed and 200 suspects captured in the area since August 26 .
Separately , a U.S. military statement says coalition forces have launched an assault on what it described as a known terrorist haven in the western al-Anbar provincial town of ar-Rutbah .
Elsewhere , a senior Interior Ministry official , Major-General Adnan Abdul Rahman , was shot and killed in front of his home in western Baghdad .
And authorities say a U.S. soldier was killed by a roadside bomb in Samarra .
Pakistan is monitoring seven major websites to block anti-Islamic content and links .
The Ministry of Information said Friday it is also outright blocking 17 other websites for alleged blasphemous material .
A Pakistan Telecommunication Authority spokesman , Khurram Mehran , said the sites that will be monitored are Yahoo , Google , YouTube , Amazon , MSN , Hotmail and Bing .
The measures follow Pakistan 's temporary ban imposed on the popular social network website Facebook in May because of a controversial page that encouraged users to draw the Prophet Muhammad .
Most Muslims consider any images made of the prophet to be blasphemous .
The ban on Facebook drew both praise and condemnation in a country that has long struggled with how strict a version of Islam Pakistan should follow .
Iraqi officials have reported two new attacks against religious targets in the country .
In a village north of Baghdad , authorities say a suicide bomber killed at least nine people at a Sufi Muslim gathering late Thursday .
The attack was reported Friday .
Some Islamic extremists regard Sufis as heretics , but no one has claimed responsibility for the attack .
In the southern city of Basra , meanwhile , authorities say gunmen shot and killed Ali Abdul-Hussein , leader of a Shi'ite mosque , as he stood outside his house late Thursday .
Officials also say a Turkman official , General Sabah Qaratun , was killed in a separate attack in the northern town of Kirkuk Friday .
The latest attacks come as Iraq 's interior ministry issued its first civilian death toll , showing 12,000 people have died over the past 18 months .
NATO says a landmine blast in eastern Afghanistan has killed one NATO solider and wounded four others .
A statement says the bomb went off Thursday near a vehicle carrying NATO troops .
The nationality of the troops was not given .
Most of the NATO soldiers in eastern Afghanistan are American .
Three Canadian troops were killed Wednesday when a roadside bomb hit their vehicle in the southern province of Kandahar .
The attack raised the Canadian military death toll in Afghanistan to 60 since 2002 .
Also Wednesday , an Afghan official , Zhari district chief Khairuddin , said Afghan and NATO forces killed 21 Taleban militants in a battle in another part of Kandahar .
The Canadian Press agency quotes a Canadian officer as saying the fighting involved Canadian soldiers .
The head of the U.N. refugee agency 's local office , Laila Nassif said two boats carrying some 300 migrants capsized in the Red Sea .
The official said another boat with 120 migrants overturned in the Arabian Sea .
Nassif said Saturday that about 110 people from the boats had been rescued .
Yemen 's official news agency reports Sunday that rescue efforts continue but that many people are still missing and feared to have drowned .
Each year , tens of thousands of Somalis and Ethiopians try to reach Yemen in hopes of escaping poverty or conflict in their homelands .
Hundreds die on the journey because of accidents and brutal treatment from smugglers .
Most of the ships cross the Gulf of Aden .
The U.N. refugee agency says more than 50,000 people made the journey last year , and that at least 590 drowned trying .
A Russian court has approved the extradition to Colombia of a former Israeli army officer convicted in absentia of training Colombian rightist paramilitaries .
Yair Klein was sentenced to 10 years in prison in Colombia .
He was detained at a Moscow airport in August last year .
A court spokesman says Klein has 10 days to appeal the ruling , which was made Tuesday .
Colombia 's paramilitary groups were organized in the 1980s as private armies for landlords to protect them from leftist guerrillas .
The first group of Ukrainian troops has arrived home from Iraq as Ukraine started the phased pull-out of its soldiers from the country .
A Ukrainian Defense Ministry statement says the plane carrying 137 soldiers landed in Mykolaiv , south of Kiev , Tuesday .
The troops were part of a contingent of more than 1,600 Ukrainian soldiers that have been serving in Iraq .
The statement says 550 troops are to be withdrawn by May 15 , and the remaining soldiers by the end of the year .
President Viktor Yushchenko had promised to have the pull-out complete by October , but officials said it may take longer .
Eighteen Ukrainian troops have been killed in Iraq during the deployment , which many Ukrainians have opposed .
Palestinian presidential candidate Mahmoud Abbas says he will seek a renewal of peace talks with Israel , if he is elected in the January 9 Palestinian election .
Mr. Abbas told the Israeli daily Maariv Thursday he would make the resumption of talks with Israel a top priority .
He also criticized Israeli attacks on Palestinians and referred to militant attacks against Israeli targets as " counterproductive . "
Violence continued in the Gaza Strip Thursday when Israeli soldiers shot and killed a Hamas gunman who infiltrated the Ganei Tal Jewish settlement in southern Gaza .
The military says soldiers shot the militant after he attacked an Israeli patrol .
They say Israeli troops were searching for a second gunman .
Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas says he will ask the Palestinian Authority 's current prime minister , Ahmed Qureia , to stay on to form a new government .
Addressing his supporters in Ramallah Saturday after he was sworn into office , Mr. Abbas expressed confidence in the prime minister and said they would consult together on forming a new government .
Mr. Qureia became prime minister after Mr. Abbas resigned in September 2003 , in a dispute with Yasser Arafat .
An Israeli military court has acquitted an officer of responsibility in the shooting death of a British journalist in the Gaza Strip two years ago .
The army decided last month not to charge the unnamed officer in James Miller 's death , but said he might be disciplined on lesser charges .
Thursday , he was cleared on all counts .
James Miller was making a documentary on the lives of Palestinian children when he was killed .
Video footage of the incident taken by his crew , show him waving a white flag and identifying himself as a journalist as he approached an Israeli armored vehicle in the dark , just before shots rang out .
The footage was shown to the court and later included in a documentary called Death in Gaza .
Malaysian officials say they have detained 93 ethnic Rohingya Muslims who fled Burma .
The officials say they seized a boat containing the men earlier this week .
Thai officials say their navy gave the men food and water when they entered Thai water .
Thailand has admitted to chasing off refugee boats in the past , but say that was not the case this time .
Burma 's military government does not recognize ethnic Rohingya as citizens .
More than 2,00,000 have fled Burmese state persecution to live in neighboring Bangladesh .
A Protestant paramilitary group in Northern Ireland says it has ordered its armed units to " stand down , " effective Monday , in line with the Irish Republican Army 's announcement last month that it would disarm .
The Loyalist Volunteer Force , which supports British rule in Northern Ireland , broke away from the larger Ulster Volunteer Force in 1996 in a dispute over the Irish peace process .
The LVF announced Sunday it had settled its feud with the larger group , a feud which claimed four lives in recent months .
The Irish Republican Army renounced violence in July , and destroyed its arms in September .
U.S. Senator John McCain Saturday repeated his party 's calls for stronger support of Iran 's protesters from the U.S. government .
Speaking on behalf of the Republican party for the weekly radio and Internet address , McCain said " we stand with " the Iranians who are protesting a disputed presidential election in the face of a heavy government crackdown .
He said the Iranians ask for nothing besides " public declarations of solidarity , and public denunciations of the tyrants who oppress them , " and he said the United States has a " moral obligation " to do so .
The Republicans have criticized Mr. Obama for not taking a stronger stand on the events in Iran .
But Mr. Obama has said the U.S. respects the sovereignty of Iran , and is not interfering in its internal affairs .
There 's a new Boss in town - and his name is Simon Cowell .
The English music mogul claims he 's worth five times more to his record company than famous rocker Bruce Springsteen .
Speaking on the U.S. television news program 60 Minutes , Cowell estimates his acts have sold more than 100 million records .
An Artist & Repertoire executive for Sony BMG in Britain , he runs his own production company and is also a well-known TV personality .
He serves as one of three judges on American Idol , which he calls " the biggest artist on the planet . "
The program airs in 40 countries worldwide , and every Idolwinner records through Sony BMG .
Israeli Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz has ordered new security measures along Israel 's border with the Gaza Strip in an attempt to prevent Palestinian militant attacks on Israeli communities .
A defense ministry official said Friday that Israel plans to create a " no-man 's land " , which Palestinians would be prevented from entering , on the Gaza side of the border .
Mr. Mofaz also ordered better security checks at two crossing points between Israel and the Gaza Strip .
Israel withdrew its last troops from the territory this week after a 38-year occupation .
After the pullout , Palestinian militants blasted an opening through a barrier on the border between southern Gaza and Egypt , prompting Israeli fears that more arms and militants would enter Gaza .
In another development Friday , thousands of Palestinians broke though security and poured into Egypt , amid Israeli concerns about authorities ' failure to control the border .
Algerian authorities say a suicide truck bomber has killed 10 soldiers and wounded about 35 others at a military barracks east of the capital , Algiers .
The bomber blew up a refrigerated truck Wednesday in Lakhdaria , a village in the restive Kabylie region .
The attack occurred just hours before the start of the All Africa Games , one of the continent 's largest sporting events .
Algiers and two towns in Kabylie are hosting the games .
Al-Jazeera television reports al-Qaida 's North African branch has claimed responsibility for the bombing .
The al-Qaida Organization in the Islamic Maghreb , formerly known as the Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat has claimed responsibility for previous attacks in Algeria , including two car bombings in April which killed 33 people .
U.S. President Barack Obama is to host his French counterpart at the White House next week for talks on a broad range of foreign policy and security issues .
The White House says President Obama looks forward to working with President Nicolas Sarkozy to sustain the global economic recovery and create jobs , as France assumes the presidency of the Group of Eight and Group of 20 top industrialized countries for 2011 .
Togo 's interim president has assured voters that Sunday 's presidential election will be held as scheduled , despite a call by the interior minister for polling to be postponed amid rising tensions in the tiny West African country .
Interim President Abass Bonfoh issued a statement Friday saying he wanted to reassure the country and the international community that the vote will take place .
He said security forces have taken necessary measures to make sure the election will be peaceful .
The president 's statement came hours after Interior Minister Francois Boko called for the postponement of Sunday 's election , warning of violence amid rising tensions .
West African leaders helped set up the election after the death of longtime President Gnassingbe Eyadema in February sparked a succession crisis .
The services sector of the U.S. economy grew a little more slowly in November .
Monday 's report from a business group , The Institute for Supply Management , says its index of growth eased 1.5 downward to a reading of 58.5 . In this index , any reading above 50 indicates growth .
Services include a huge number of non-manufacturing businesses , everything from barber shops to airlines , and make up the majority of activity in the U.S. economy .
Some analysts say the businesses included in the survey had a " generally positive " outlook in the U.S. economic situation , but remain concerned about high energy prices .
The U.S. military in Iraq says one American soldier was killed in a roadside bomb blast south of Baghdad Thursday .
The blast occurred in the same general region where U.S. troops and insurgents fought a brief battle on Wednesday , killing one U.S. soldier and two terrorists .
Also on Wednesday , a top U.S. military official , Brigadier General Michael Barbero , told reporters at the Pentagon that there is clear evidence Iranian forces are in Iraq giving training , money , and equipment to Shi'ite insurgents , including the deadly Improvised Explosive Devices - IEDs .
But he said coalition troops have not directly encountered any Iranians .
The IEDs have killed more than 1,200 U.S. soldiers and thousands of civilians .
The U.S. general says neutralizing the Shi'ite extremists will go a long way towards removing Iranian influence in Iraq .
The International Olympic Committee says it has " full confidence " that London will be able to provide a secure environment when it hosts the 2012 Olympic games .
A spokeswoman for the Olympic committee made the comment just hours after a series of terrorist attacks shook London Thursday .
On Wednesday , the IOC selected the British capital to host the 2012 games during a meeting in Singapore .
London beat out Paris , Madrid , New York and Moscow .
The British Olympics Minister Tessa Jowell said plans to celebrate the homecoming of the British Olympic delegation have been canceled .
A Chinese millionaire has been executed for arranging a contract killing on a man who threatened to expose him for attempting to murder a business partner .
Yuan Baojing , former president of Beijing-based Jianhao Group , was put to death by lethal injection Saturday in Liaoning province .
His brother and cousin were also executed .
Yuan was sentenced to death last January for hiring a hit man in a failed plot to kill a business partner who caused his company to lose more than $ 10 million .
The man who found the hit man then began blackmailing Yuan .
The tycoon paid his brother and cousin to kill the blackmailer , who was shot to death in October 2003 .
France 's oldest World War One veteran has died at the age of 111 .
Maurice Floquet died at his home in southern France on the eve of November 11 , the 88th anniversary of the armistice that ended the war .
His death leaves France with only four living veterans of the conflict .
Floquet joined the French infantry and fought in a number of battles including the Somme .
Saturday , French President Jacques Chirac is to lead the traditional Armistice Day ceremonies in Paris .
One of the four remaining World War I veterans will join the French leader at the Arc de Triomphe commemorations .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas is in the Gaza Strip for talks aimed at preserving a four-month Israeli-Palestinian ceasefire following two days of new violence .
Mr. Abbas arrived in the Gaza Strip hours after witnesses saw an Israeli aircraft fire missiles at suspected Hamas militants who were apparently preparing to fire rockets at Israeli targets .
There were no reports of casualties in the air strike near the Khan Younis refugee camp .
Also Wednesday , Israeli Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz met Palestinian Interior Minister Nasser Yousef to discuss ways of preserving the ceasefire and preparing the upcoming Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza strip .
Five people were killed in violence on Tuesday , the deadliest since Israel and Palestinian groups began observing a ceasefire four months ago .
A 34-year-old Buddhist clothes trader is the latest beheading victim in Thailand 's troubled Muslim-dominated south .
Authorities say Lek Pongpa was sitting outside a tea shop during lunch time Wednesday in Narathiwat province when a suspected Islamic militant approached him and shot him twice in the back .
The attacker then cut the victim 's head off , stuffed it in a sack and fled the scene .
The head was later found dumped two kilometers away from the tea shop .
Mr. Lek is the fifth Thai Buddhist beheading victim this month , and the eighth overall since a Muslim insurgency broke out in January 2004 .
More than 700 people have been killed in the violence , which has been centered in Narathiwat , Yala and Pattani .
Britney Spears and Kevin Federline officially ended their marriage July 30 .
Los Angeles Court Commissioner Scott Gordon signed orders for dissolution of marriage , an alimony agreement , and child custody .
Britney Spears ' attorney Laura Wasser said the alimony agreement will not be made public unless there is an enforcement issue .
The child custody order was tentatively sealed , pending an August 14 hearing .
Gordon said " the best interests of the children could be harmed " if the arrangement were not sealed .
Spears married Federline , a former backup dancer , in October , 2004 , eight months after the annulment of her first marriage to childhood friend Jason Alexander .
Citing irreconcilable differences , she filed for divorce from Federline on November 7 , 2006 .
Since February , the couple have shared joint custody of their two sons , 22-month-old Sean Preston and 10-month-old Jayden James .
In National Basketball Association ( NBA ) action Thursday , Tracy McGrady scored 34 points to lead the Houston Rockets over the Cleveland Cavaliers , 90-81 in Cleveland .
It was the fourth straight game in which McGrady scored more than 30 points and the team 's second-straight road win .
LeBron James led Cleveland with 32 points in what was the fourth loss at home for the Cavaliers this season .
In Thursday 's other NBA game , Indiana 's Stephen Jackson had 27 points , five rebounds and three assists to lead the Pacers to a 99-89 victory over the Golden State Warriors .
Austin Croshere added 17 points , nine rebounds , two assists and two steals for Indiana .
Mike Dunleavy led Golden State with 19 points .
Pakistani police say a suicide bomber blew himself up in the country 's volatile northwestern region , killing a child and wounding four other people .
Authorities say the attack happened Tuesday in the Swat Valley , near the border with Afghanistan .
Suicide bombings in the region have killed at least 10 people in the last week .
The Pakistani government has been trying to regain control of the Swat Valley in recent months , after militants regrouped there from other Pakistani border areas with Afghanistan .
International donors meeting in Oslo , Norway have pledged about four-point-five billion dollars in aid to rebuild southern Sudan after 21 years of civil war .
The United States pledged $ 1.7 billion over the next two years .
However , U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick said Tuesday the aid is dependent on Sudan ending a separate conflict in its western Darfur region .
He said the violence in Darfur casts a dangerous shadow over all of Sudan .
The United Nations estimates that the fighting in Darfur between pro-government Arab militias and rebels has left 1,80,000 people dead and more than two million others displaced .
Those aid donations made in Oslo Tuesday and Monday will go to help humanitarian and rebuilding efforts in southern Sudan , following a peace deal between the government and southern rebels earlier this year .
The former head of the U.S. central bank says in a new memoir that he believes the Iraq war is largely about oil .
Former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan writes in his memoir to be released on Monday that he is " saddened that it is politically inconvenient to acknowledge what everyone knows - the Iraq war is largely about oil . "
Defense Secretary Robert Gates disagreed in a televised interivew on ABC 's This Week Sunday , saying the war is really about stability in the Middle East and trying to prevent rogue regimes from developing weapons of mass destruction .
Greenspan headed the U.S. central bank from 1987 until 2006 , serving under four presidents .
He earned praise for policies that many said encouraged the American economic boom in the 1990s .
Some of the information for this report provided by AP and AFP .
Chinese authorities have arrested one of the country 's top rocket designers and will try him on charges of accepting bribes and embezzling millions of dollars .
The official Xinhua news agency said Friday , that Li Jianzhong , the former president of the Chinese Academy of Carrier Rocket Technology , is alleged to have taken more than $ 2,00,000 in bribes .
He is also accused of embezzling nearly $ 19 million .
Mr. Li 's agency developed the Long March series of rockets , one of which powered China 's first manned spaceship , the Shenzhou Five , into space in October of 2003 .
Xinhua said a tip to police prompted an investigation of Mr. Li that began shortly after the successful launch of the Shenzhou Five rocket in October of 2003 .
Iran says it will suspend uranium conversion activities from November 22 as part of a European-brokered deal to ease tensions over the country 's nuclear program .
In a news briefing Monday , Foreign Ministry spokesman Hamid Reza Asefi described the move as a confidence-building measure .
But he insisted Iran would not permanently halt uranium enrichment activities .
Full details of the agreement announced Sunday are not yet available .
European countries had warned Tehran that they would support referring Iran to the United Nations Security Council for possible sanctions if the enrichment program was not stopped .
Uranium enrichment can be used to make material for atomic weapons , but Iran insists its nuclear program is only for peaceful purposes .
The United States accuses Iran of developing a secret nuclear weapons program .
Afghan officials say international and Afghan security sweeps Friday and Saturday across the country killed at least 25 insurgents .
In the Sangin district of Helmand , troops killed 10 insurgents and captured a high-level Taliban commander named Mullah Mohammad Hassan .
Officials say Hassan was involved with attacks against troops in the northern part of the province .
Eight more militants were killed and two others captured in the Surkh Rod district of Nangahar province .
The government said several more were killed in security raids over the past 24 hours in various parts of the country , including at least seven in northern Baghlan province .
In the eastern Ghazni province , meanwhile , the Interior Ministry says insurgents killed five Afghan guards on Friday while they were escorting a convoy of oil tankers .
The ministry said its forces killed six insurgents who had been involved in the attack .
The new U.N. Special Envoy to Afghanistan visited the Afghan capital , Kabul , Friday , and vowed to bring changes to help with rebuilding efforts in the war-torn country .
Former Norwegian Ambassador Kai Eide promised to improve coordination with the Afghan government and international donors on aid and development efforts .
A lack of coordination has led to numerous failed reconstruction projects , but a new U.N. resolution empowers Eide to directly coordinate such support .
Eide said the government of President Hamid Karzai asked for better coordination long ago .
He promised the United Nations would do a better job than it has in the past .
U.S. pro-immigrant groups are calling for a nationwide boycott May 1 to pressure Congress into granting illegal aliens the right to gain citizenship .
On that Monday , immigrants and supporters of immigrants ' rights plan to stay home from work or school and refrain from buying or selling anything .
The plans come after immigrants and immigrants ' rights supporters held demonstrations across the nation in recent weeks .
Saturday in New York City , more than 10,000 people rallied outside the U.S. immigration office .
The demonstrators say immigrants should be recognized for significant contributions to the U.S. economy .
Those marches and rallies come as the Senate discusses a proposed guest-worker program President Bush has strongly endorsed .
The House of Representatives has passed legislation that would make it a felony to be an illegal immigrant , and heavily penalize companies hiring them .
The death of a pope immediately sets into motion a series of historic rituals for the mourning of the death of the leader of the Roman Catholic church .
To verify the pope 's death , the head of the Sacred College of Cardinals stands over the deceased and calls the pontiff by his baptismal name three times .
If there is no response , he announces the death and arranges for the Papal ring , known as the ring of the fisherman , and the papal seal both to be broken .
Upon news of the pontiff 's death , church bells in Rome and throughout Italy begin tolling .
The shutters on the pope 's private apartment and the massive bronze doors beneath a portico off Saint Peter 's Square are closed .
The cardinal then makes preparations for the Papal funeral rites and the traditional nine days of mourning .
Mexico 's Zapatista rebels have announced that they are dissolving their political wing and replacing it with a new civil organization .
Zapatista leader Subcomandante Marcos said Wednesday that the Zapatista National Liberation Front will cease operations on Friday .
Subcomandante Marcos did not have a name for the new organization , but said it will be " peaceful , anti-capitalist and leftist . "
Last August , Subcomandante Marcos emerged from hiding in the jungle for the first time in four years to criticize the country 's political leaders .
In 1994 , Zapatista rebels staged an armed rebellion in the Chiapas state of Mexico , asserting indigenous rights .
Two new reports paint a discouraging picture of the U.S. economy Friday .
A University of Michigan survey of hundreds of households shows the steepest monthly drop in consumer confidence on record in October .
Economists watch consumer moods for clues about the consumer spending that drives two-thirds of the U.S. economy .
Experts blame falling consumer confidence on problems in the credit and stock markets that have hurt the investments that many people had hoped would pay for their retirements .
A separate report from the Commerce Department said the number of new homes under construction fell sharply ( by more than six percent ) in September to a 17-year low .
If housing starts continued at September 's rate for a whole year , just 8,17,000 new homes would go up .
Officials also said that the number of applications for permits to build homes in the future plunged to a 27-year low .
Russia is voicing surprise at the White House move to withdraw a bilateral civilian nuclear cooperation agreement from consideration by Congress .
The Russian Foreign Ministry , in a statement Tuesday , called President George Bush 's move to withdraw the deal from congressional consideration wrong , and in Moscow 's words , " politicized . "
Mr. Bush sent a withdrawal message to Congress Monday , in response to Russia 's military incursion into Georgia last month .
He called Russia 's action " incompatible with peaceful relations with its sovereign and democratic neighbor . "
The president said he could re-submit the deal to Congress for its approval , if circumstances change in Georgia .
Moscow and Washington signed the nuclear cooperation deal earlier this year .
It would have allowed U.S. and Russian companies to enter joint ventures in the nuclear industry .
Business analysts say the deal could have been worth billions of dollars .
Unique among African countries , the ancient Ethiopian monarchy maintained its freedom from colonial rule with the exception of a short-lived Italian occupation from 1936 - 41 .
In 1974 , a military junta , the Derg , deposed Emperor Haile SELASSIE ( who had ruled since 1930 ) and established a socialist state .
Torn by bloody coups , uprisings , wide-scale drought , and massive refugee problems , the regime was finally toppled in 1991 by a coalition of rebel forces , the Ethiopian People 's Revolutionary Democratic Front ( EPRDF ) .
A constitution was adopted in 1994 , and Ethiopia 's first multiparty elections were held in 1995 .
A border war with Eritrea late in the 1990s ended with a peace treaty in December 2000 .
In November 2007 , the Eritrea-Ethiopia Border Commission remotely demarcated the border by geographical coordinates , but final demarcation of the boundary on the ground is currently on hold because of Ethiopian objections to an international commission 's finding requiring it to surrender territory considered sensitive to Ethiopia .
Belize was the site of several Mayan city states until their decline at the end of the first millennium A.D.
The British and Spanish disputed the region in the 17th and 18th centuries ; it formally became the colony of British Honduras in 1854 .
Territorial disputes between the UK and Guatemala delayed the independence of Belize until 1981 .
Guatemala refused to recognize the new nation until 1992 and the two countries are involved in an ongoing border dispute .
Guatemala and Belize plan to hold a simultaneous referendum to determine if this dispute will go before the International Court of Justice at The Hague , though they have not yet set a date .
Tourism has become the mainstay of the economy .
Current concerns include the country 's heavy foreign debt burden , high unemployment , growing involvement in the Mexican and South American drug trade , high crime rates , and one of the highest prevalence rates of HIV / AIDS in Central America .
The region of present day Georgia contained the ancient kingdoms of Colchis and Kartli-Iberia .
The area came under Roman influence in the first centuries A.D . and Christianity became the state religion in the 330s .
Domination by Persians , Arabs , and Turks was followed by a Georgian golden age ( 11th - 13th centuries ) that was cut short by the Mongol invasion of 1236 .
Subsequently , the Ottoman and Persian empires competed for influence in the region .
Georgia was absorbed into the Russian Empire in the 19th century .
Independent for three years ( 1918 - 1921 ) following the Russian revolution , it was forcibly incorporated into the USSR until the Soviet Union dissolved in 1991 .
An attempt by the incumbent Georgian government to manipulate national legislative elections in November 2003 touched off widespread protests that led to the resignation of Eduard SHEVARDNADZE , president since 1995 .
New elections in early 2004 swept Mikheil SAAKASHVILI into power along with his United National Movement party .
Progress on market reforms and democratization has been made in the years since independence , but this progress has been complicated by Russian assistance and support to the breakaway regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia .
After a series of Russian and separatist provocations in summer 2008 , Georgian military action in South Ossetia in early August led to a Russian military response that not only occupied the breakaway areas , but large portions of Georgia proper as well .
Russian troops pulled back from most occupied Georgian territory , but in late August 2008 Russia unilaterally recognized the independence of Abkhazia and South Ossetia .
This action was strongly condemned by most of the world 's nations and international organizations .
A large body of recent oceanographic research has shown that the Antarctic Circumpolar Current ( ACC ) , an ocean current that flows from west to east around Antarctica , plays a crucial role in global ocean circulation .
The region where the cold waters of the ACC meet and mingle with the warmer waters of the north defines a distinct border - the Antarctic Convergence - which fluctuates with the seasons , but which encompasses a discrete body of water and a unique ecologic region .
The Convergence concentrates nutrients , which promotes marine plant life , and which in turn allows for a greater abundance of animal life .
In the spring of 2000 , the International Hydrographic Organization decided to delimit the waters within the Convergence as a fifth world ocean - the Southern Ocean - by combining the southern portions of the Atlantic Ocean , Indian Ocean , and Pacific Ocean .
The Southern Ocean extends from the coast of Antarctica north to 60 degrees south latitude , which coincides with the Antarctic Treaty Limit and which approximates the extent of the Antarctic Convergence .
As such , the Southern Ocean is now the fourth largest of the world 's five oceans ( after the Pacific Ocean , Atlantic Ocean , and Indian Ocean , but larger than the Arctic Ocean ) .
It should be noted that inclusion of the Southern Ocean does not imply recognition of this feature as one of the world 's primary oceans by the US Government .
Although sighted by Christopher COLUMBUS in 1493 and claimed for Spain , it was the Dutch who occupied the island in 1631 and set about exploiting its salt deposits .
The Spanish retook the island in 1633 , but continued to be harassed by the Dutch .
The Spanish finally relinquished the island of Saint Martin to the French and Dutch , who divided it amongst themselves in 1648 .
The establishment of cotton , tobacco , and sugar plantations dramatically expanded slavery on the island in the 18th and 19th centuries ; the practice was not abolished in the Dutch half until 1863 .
The island 's economy declined until 1939 when it became a free port ; the tourism industry was dramatically expanded beginning in the 1950s .
In 1954 , Sint Maarten and several other Dutch Caribbean possessions became part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands as the Netherlands Antilles .
In a 2000 referendum , the citizens of Sint Maarten voted to become a self-governing country within the Kingdom of the Netherlands .
The change in status became effective in October of 2010 with the dissolution of the Netherlands Antilles .
AN ASS , having put on the Lion 's skin , roamed about in the forest and amused himself by frightening all the foolish animals he met in his wanderings .
At last coming upon a Fox , he tried to frighten him also , but the Fox no sooner heard the sound of his voice than he exclaimed , " I might possibly have been frightened myself , if I had not heard your bray . "
Clothes may disguise a fool , but his words will give him away
A CROW having stolen a bit of meat , perched in a tree and held it in her beak .
A Fox , seeing this , longed to possess the meat himself , and by a wily stratagem succeeded .
" How handsome is the Crow , " he exclaimed , in the beauty of her shape and in the fairness of her complexion !
Oh , if her voice were only equal to her beauty , she would deservedly be considered the Queen of Birds ! "
This he said deceitfully ; but the Crow , anxious to refute the reflection cast upon her voice , set up a loud caw and dropped the flesh .
The Fox quickly picked it up , and thus addressed the Crow : " My good Crow , your voice is right enough , but your wit is wanting . "
A MAN had two dogs : a Hound , trained to assist him in his sports , and a Housedog , taught to watch the house .
When he returned home after a good day 's sport , he always gave the Housedog a large share of his spoil .
The Hound , feeling much aggrieved at this , reproached his companion , saying , " It is very hard to have all this labor , while you , who do not assist in the chase , luxuriate on the fruits of my exertions . "
The Housedog replied , " Do not blame me , my friend , but find fault with the master , who has not taught me to labor , but to depend for subsistence on the labor of others . "
Children are not to be blamed for the faults of their parents .
The Iraqi government has expressed outrage at the publication of more images of U.S. soldiers abusing Iraqi prisoners at Abu Ghraib prison more than two years ago .
Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari 's office condemned the abuse depicted in the images first broadcast by Australian television this week .
And Iraq 's Human Rights Minister Zuhair al-Chalabi told Reuters news agency he believes U.S. forces should hand over their Iraqi detainees to the Iraqi government .
Iraqis have reacted angrily to the images , which show male detainees naked , hanging upside-down from a bed and with various red marks on their bodies .
When images of the abuse were first published in 2004 , they sparked widespread protests .
The U.S. Defense Department says it is concerned that the latest release of the pictures could spark more violence .
It says the abuse incidents at Abu Ghraib have been investigated , and that more than 25 service members have been disciplined because of it .
The White House says President Bush will meet Thursday in Washington with Salva Kiir , a vice president in the national Sudanese government and the president of semi-autonomous southern Sudan .
A statement Tuesday said the two leaders will discuss implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement that ended Sudan 's north-south civil war in 2005 .
The agreement has appeared increasingly shaky , especially since former southern rebels withdrew their ministers from the national government in Khartoum last month .
The Sudan People 's Liberation Movement has accused Khartoum of blocking implementation of the peace deal .
The former rebels are demanding withdrawal of northern troops and more control over the oil-producing Abiya region .
The White House says Mr. Bush and Mr. Kiir will also discuss efforts to bring peace to Sudan 's troubled Darfur region .
Peace talks in Libya last month made little progress as the chief Darfur rebel groups refused to attend .
Pro-Moscow officials in Chechnya say federal forces have killed a separatist leader believed to have been involved in a number of terrorist attacks .
Authorities say Rizvan Chitigov was killed Wednesday in a special operation in Chechnya 's Shali district .
The Itar-Tass news agency says in 2001 he had considered producing poisonous substances to use against federal forces .
The agency quotes pro-Moscow Chechen President Alu Alkhanov saying the slain leader was a hard-line field commander with a long record of killing law enforcement and government officials .
Russian troops have been battling separatists in Chechnya for most of the past decade .
The International Olympic Committee ( IOC ) has rescinded its suspension of Iraq , allowing the Middle Eastern nation to compete at the Beijing Games .
IOC officials said Tuesday that they are lifting Iraq 's ban because the government has pledged to ensure the independence of its national Olympic committee .
The decision follows last-minute talks between Iraqi officials and the IOC in Lausanne , Switzerland .
A deadline to submit competitors ' names for athletics events expires on Wednesday .
Iraq is expected to send two athletes to Beijing .
Five others lost their chance to go when the final date to select competitors for archery , judo , rowing and weightlifting passed last week .
Iraq has won only one bronze medal since its first appearance at the Summer Olympics in 1948 .
World Bank President Paul Wolfowitz is in Rwanda Thursday , for the third stop in his four-nation African tour .
Mr. Wolfowitz visited the memorial to the some 8,00,000 victims of Rwanda 's 1994 genocide .
He said it is clear the tragedy could have been prevented and said he regrets the international community did n't do more .
Mr. Wolfowitz is also scheduled to meet with President Paul Kagame .
He will also tour World Bank funded projects in the country .
Mr. Wolfowitz is on his first trip to Africa since he became head of the Washington-based World Bank on June 1 .
He ended a two-day tour of Burkina Faso Wednesday , and visited Nigeria earlier this week .
He wraps up his African tour Friday in South Africa .
An Italian reporter held hostage by the Taleban in Afghanistan has appeared speaking in a video received by a non-governmental relief agency .
The Italian aid group , Emergency , said in a statement the videotape of kidnapped journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo was received Wednesday .
In it , Mastrogiacomo says " Today is March 12 , it is 8 a.m. in Afghanistan . "
He says he is in good physical conditions and also appeals to the Italian government to work for his release .
Taleban militants captured the reporter last week in Afghanistan 's southern Helmand province .
The Taleban says he has confessed to being a spy , but his newspaper has denied the charge .
The Italian government has said they believed the journalist is alive and has said it is taking steps to gain his freedom .
A group of about 150 Guatemalan refugees has returned home , more than two decades after fleeing the civil war then tearing up their country .
The group arrived in Guatemala from Bolivia Sunday .
Most had fled to neighboring Honduras in 1981 .
United Nations officials later sent them to Bolivia for their safety .
About 2,00,000 people died in Guatemala 's civil war from 1960 to 1996 .
Tens of thousands were displaced by the fighting .
The Guatemalan government had long discussed helping refugees return home , but it did not take action until Bolivian President Evo Morales expressed support for the repatriation in 2005 .
Turkish officials say soldiers have killed 10 Kurdish guerrillas in a clash in a remote area of southeast Turkey .
Local authorities said Sunday that soldiers pursued militants from the Kurdistan Workers Party ( PKK ) during a four-day operation in Sirnak province , and were involved in a firefight after the rebels failed to surrender .
Officials say the soldiers also confiscated weapons and explosives during the operation .
The clash coincided with a bomb attack at a resort in western Turkey which killed five people .
Officials blame Saturday 's bombing on the PKK , but the separatist group denies any involvement in the attack .
The PKK took up arms against the Turkish state in 1984 with the aim of establishing an ethnic homeland in southeast Turkey .
More than 30,000 people have died in the conflict .
One of the 33 Chilean miners trapped for 40 days has become a new father , but he will have to wait weeks before he can hold his daughter .
Ariel Ticona 's wife gave birth to their daughter , Esperanza – Spanish for Hope , on Tuesday at a hospital in Copiapo , near the mine .
Drilling to free Ticona and the 32 other men has been temporarily halted due to a broken drill head , but authorities say it will not significantly delay the rescue effort .
Emergency workers made contact with them on August 22 .
Authorities say a rescue could take until the end of the year .
The miners have been receiving food , medicine , letters , cigarettes and other items through a chute to the chamber where they are located .
The miners have been underground since August 5 , when they were trapped by a cave-in .
A Malaysian court has awarded former deputy prime minister Anwar Ibrahim $ 1.2 million in libel damages from an author who wrote a book accusing him of sexual misconduct and treason .
Mr. Anwar 's suit targeted Khalid Jafri , writer of 50 Reasons why Anwar Can not be Prime Minister , which was published three months before Mr. Anwar was fired in September 1998 and subsequently convicted of corruption and sodomy charges .
Mr. Anwar served six years in prison before the sodomy conviction was overturned .
He had completed the corruption sentence .
The high court Thursday ordered Mr. Khalid to pay damages for making a " vicious and venomous public attack " against Mr. Anwar .
Mr. Anwar told reporters the judgment shows that he has been completely vindicated .
He has repeatedly denied all of Mr. Khalid 's accusations .
Iraqi police say 11 people have been killed in suicide bomb attacks targeting an officer in an Iraqi special forces unit in Samara , north of Baghdad .
The officer escaped injury .
In the first attack , a suicide bomber blew himself up outside the home of the officer , killing and wounding people in the street , but not harming anyone in the house .
Shortly afterward , two people identified as insurgents tried to set a bomb outside the same house .
They were killed by their bomb .
Earlier , in an attack overnight , eight policemen were killed when insurgents struck a police station near the city of Ramadi , the capital of Anbar province .
Police and other members of Iraq 's security forces are frequently targeted by insurgents , who regard the security personnel as collaborators with U.S. troops .
South Korea 's Agriculture Ministry confirmed Saturday that a new outbreak of bird flu there is the highly pathogenic H5N1 strain of the virus .
Officials say test results showed chickens at a farm in Cheonan , 90 kilometers south of the capital , Seoul , were infected with the disease .
South Korea will slaughter more than 2,70,000 poultry near the farm to try to keep the virus from spreading further .
The outbreak is South Korea 's fifth since November .
Bird flu has killed more than 150 people worldwide since 2003 .
Health Ministry officials in Indonesia and Egypt also announced new human fatalities from bird flu today .
Indonesian officials say a 19-year-old woman from West Java died Friday from the H5N1 strain of bird flu .
In Egypt , a 27-year-old woman infected with bird flu died on Friday at a hospital in Cairo .
The United States contacted the United Nations Security Council after North Korea test launched the missiles .
In a statement , U.N. Ambassador John Bolton said Tuesday he is urgently consulting with other members of the 15-nation body .
Officials say that so far an emergency meeting of the security council has not been requested .
The council is expected to take up the issue on Wednesday at its regular consultations .
Home sales in the United States dropped between April and March , evidence that the housing market 's problems are not over .
Friday 's report from a business group , The National Association of Realtors , says sales of previously-owned homes fell one percent in March .
That pushed the sales of houses , condominiums , and apartments down to an annual rate of just under 4.9 million units .
The same report says the median sales price for a home fell eight percent from the same period last year .
Sales of previously-owned homes are the largest part of the housing market .
Sales of newly-constructed homes will be reported next week .
Problems in the housing market are one key reason for the current economic slowdown in the United States .
Iran has accused the British military of equipping and helping the bombers who killed eight people in southern Iran Tuesday .
Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki says he has information showing the bombers interacted with British soldiers based in Iraq .
Britain denies the charges and any involvement in the twin bombings in Ahvaz .
Last year , at least 12 people were killed in Ahvaz in a series of bombings that Iran blamed on Iranian Arab extremists with ties to foreign governments .
In October , an editorial in Iran 's Kayhan International newspaper alleged that British agents were involved in the bombings .
Britain also denied involvement in those attacks .
It has accused Tehran of backing insurgents fighting British forces in southeastern Iraq .
Philippine police have rescued two hostages and arrested 10 members of a kidnap gang in a Manila suburb .
Operatives from the National Anti-Kidnapping Task Force raided the kidnappers ' hideout in Las Pinas city , south of Manila , Sunday .
They rescued 26-year-old Jeffrey Cruz and his girlfriend 20-year-old Katrina Schoof , who were abducted four days ago near the upscale Ayala Alabang shopping district .
The kidnappers had demanded a ransom of nearly $ 5,50,000 .
Last year , President Gloria Arroyo ordered a massive crackdown on kidnap gangs , leading to the arrests or killing of several gang leaders .
The government says a rash of kidnappings in Manila targeting businessmen has scared off potential investors .
Russia 's space agency says it has set a new date for launching a European probe to explore Venus after technical problems postponed the liftoff earlier this month .
Officials said Monday the Soyuz rocket carrying the Venus Express satellite will blast off Wednesday , November 9 from the Baikonur cosmodrome in Kazakhstan .
The October 26 launch was canceled due to problems with a booster rocket on the Soyuz spacecraft .
The European Space Agency 's Venus Express probe will study the planet 's atmosphere for more than a year .
The flight to Earth 's nearest neighbor is expected to take five months .
Hundreds of Cambodians have joined an unusual wedding ceremony for two pythons whom they hope will bring good luck to their villages .
In Monday 's ceremony , villagers in southern Cambodia 's Kandal province wedded a female python named Chamrouen and a male python named Kroung Pich and placed them in the same cage .
The new couple also received a blessing from Buddhist monks .
Many Cambodians subscribe to animism - the belief that spirits can inhabit living creatures and inanimate objects .
The owner of the female python says villagers performed the ceremony on the recommendation of fortune tellers , who said the snakes belong together and keeping them apart could bring bad luck .
Neth Vy said he had raised Chamrouen in his family home since 1994 after finding the then-tiny python while fishing .
People in a neighboring village caught the male python last month .
A Tibet advocacy group has organized an international protest against the Internet search engine Google after the company accepted government restrictions on use of its service in China .
Students For a Free Tibet said Tuesday that thousands of Tibetans around the world have stopped using the Google service .
They say they have sent 45-thousand electronic protest messages to Google executives as well .
The group also organized a demonstration in the northern Indian city of Dharmsala , the headquarters of the exiled Tibetan government .
The group is condemning Google 's move to obey Beijing 's restrictions on free speech , saying it will prohibit access to information about Tibet and other sensitive political issues .
Google executives have defended the decision , acknowledging the restrictions are inconsistent with the company 's policy , but saying they are a worthwhile sacrifice to reach more users .
Tens of thousands of people in St. Peter 's Square stood in tearful silence after the death of Pope John Paul II was announced .
Vatican officials told the pilgrims that a Mass for the pope will be held in the square Sunday morning .
Pilgrims cried , held rosaries and candles , and prayed after the announcement of the pontiff 's death .
The bells of the churches of Rome tolled after the announcement .
A service of hymns , Bible readings and prayers followed .
Someone in the crowd waved a large Polish flag .
Some pilgrims had spent the night Friday in the square , located beneath the pope 's apartment window at the Vatican .
Many had kept up a continuous vigil for the pontiff .
Outgoing British Prime Minister Tony Blair has announced a new initiative for training Muslim clergy and boosting the study of moderate Islam in British colleges and universities .
Mr. Blair announced the government plan Monday at an Islamic conference in London .
He said he feared extremists could drown out what he called the " TRUE voice " of Islam .
The nearly $ 2 million initiative follows a government report that found Islamic studies in Britain focus broadly on conditions in the Middle East , while often failing to reflect the realities of Muslim life in Britain .
Mr. Blair also stressed that his decisions to back U.S.-led military actions in Afghanistan and Iraq had nothing to do with religion .
He said the religious faith of both countries was no more relevant to those decisions than to the decision his government took in the 1990s to support ethnic Albanian Muslims in Serbia 's embattled Kosovo province .
Doctors in the United States are testing a possible breakthrough treatment for brain cancer .
Scorpion venom has been administered to dozens of patients at four hospitals after researchers found that the agent selectively attached to tumor cells while sparing normal cells .
Steve Mort reports for VOA on one clinical trial-taking place at a Florida hospital .
The U.S. House of Representatives has approved a $ 516 billion budget measure that funds American troops in Afghanistan and all federal agencies except the Pentagon .
The measure passed late Monday includes $ 31 billion for the troops in Afghanistan , but does not include funding for military operations in Iraq .
The Senate is expected to add $ 40 billion for operations in Iraq when it debates the spending package Tuesday .
In a speech Monday , President Bush said he was pleased to report that good progress was being made toward coming up with a " fiscally sound budget . "
He has called for a bill that funds the troops in Iraq without including demands for a withdrawal .
The House bill reversed domestic spending cuts sought by President Bush in areas including medical research grants , student aid , law enforcement and heating subsidies .
The National Basketball Association is considering a league-wide standard for physical exams following the death of Atlanta Hawks center Jason Collier .
The 28-year-old Collier died on Saturday after he had difficulty breathing at home .
His agent , Richard Howell said Collier may have had an enlarged heart .
Individual team doctors from each of the NBA 's 30 franchises currently conduct physical exams for their players before training camp .
Some teams use echocardiograms to detect heart problems .
But the test is not mandatory .
A number of NBA players have had heart-related problems .
New York Knicks forward Eddy Curry missed the final 13 games of last season and the playoffs with an irregular heartbeat .
Minnesota guard Fred Hoiberg will miss this season after open heart surgery in June .
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan says he is confident that a European Commission report due this week will recommend moving forward on his country 's application for admission to the European Union .
Mr. Erdogan told a German television interviewer Sunday that Turkey will settle for nothing less than full EU membership , and he rejected suggestions by some EU politicians that Turkey lacks European values .
But the bloc 's expansion commissioner , Guenter Verheugen , has told Germany 's Bild am Sonntag newspaper that the recommendations to EU leaders , due out Wednesday , will be more critical than is widely expected of Turkey 's level of compliance with EU human rights standards .
The EU leaders are to consider that report when they vote in December whether to move forward with membership talks .
Mr. Erdogan is in Berlin to meet with German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder .
Egyptian police say they have seized 500 kilograms of explosives in the central Sinai Peninsula .
Authorities say the explosives were bound for Palestinians in the Gaza Strip .
The police say they found the explosives under plastic sheeting in the desert .
Over the past two years , Islamic extremists have carried out several terror attacks on southern Sinai beach resorts .
Israel claims that weapons and explosives are being smuggled from Egypt into the Gaza Strip .
The Israeli military has said it found underground tunnels between Egypt and the Gaza Strip that were used by weapons smugglers .
Israel and Palestinian factions in the Gaza Strip agreed on a ceasefire over one week ago .
South Korea and Bolivia are nearing an agreement to develop a coveted lithium resource in the South American country .
South Korean media quoted unnamed government officials Tuesday saying the countries are working on the final draft of a deal to be signed when Bolivian President Evo Morales visits Seoul this month .
It was not clear whether the agreement would entitle South Korea to extract the lithium .
Bolivia holds roughly half of the world 's lithium reserves in the Salar de Uyuni lake area .
Japan , China , France and Brazil also have expressed an interest in developing the resource .
Lithium is used in rechargeable batteries for laptop computers , mobile phones and electric cars .
Pope Benedict says he is upset that a speech he gave this week offended Muslims .
The pope said Saturday he is very sorry that his comments were interpreted as offensive to Islam .
Benedict has received widespread criticism from Muslim leaders for his remarks Tuesday linking Islam with violence .
In a speech to academics in Germany , Benedict quoted a 14th century Byzantine emperor as saying the Prophet Muhammad brought " only evil and inhuman things , " such as holy war .
Malaysian Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi said today the pope should not " take lightly " the spread of outrage that has been created .
An Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman says the pope 's comments were a " great mistake . "
Muslim leaders elsewhere , including Pakistan , Iraq and Turkey , have also denounced the pope 's comments .
The Vatican says Pope Benedict respects Islam and did not intend to offend anyone .
Chinese President Hu Jintao has wrapped up a week-long European trip by meeting with Spanish business leaders in efforts to expand trade and economic ties .
Spain 's King Juan Carlos joined Mr. Hu in inaugurating the first Spanish-Chinese business convention bringing together business representatives from both countries .
Monday , Mr. Hu and Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero signed an agreement making Spain a privileged partner in economic and political dealings with China .
Spain and China also reached an extradition accord .
But Spain , in accordance with European Union policy , will not send back suspects who could face the death penalty in China .
Spain was the last stop on Mr. Hu 's European tour , which included Germany and Britain .
Demonstrators protesting Chinese policies on human rights and Tibet followed Mr. Hu throughout his trip .
China says it has pledged $ 1 million to help Iraq hold elections in January .
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Zhang Qiyue says Beijing made the pledge this week during a conference on Iraq 's political future in the Egyptian resort of Sharm El-Sheikh .
The spokeswoman said China has actively taken part in efforts to rebuild and promote peace in Iraq and will also provide training for diplomats and for professionals in the business management and energy sectors .
Earlier this year , China wrote off parts of Iraq 's debts and pledged $ 25 million in reconstruction aid .
Police in western India say at least 30 have been killed and scores of others feared trapped under collapsed buildings as mudslides triggered by monsoon rains continue to lash the region .
Officials in Maharashtra state say worst hit is the area south of the state capital , Mumbai , also known as Bombay , where more than 100 people are feared buried under flattened mud houses .
Authorities have called the army to assist thousands of people stranded by flood and mudslides .
In Bombay , India 's financial and entertainment capital , many low-lying areas are flooded .
Weather forecasters say heavy rains and winds will continue for at least through Wednesday .
India 's monsoon rains , which usually last from June through September , claim hundreds of lives every year .
Somalia 's Islamists have extended their influence in the lawless country by setting up an Islamic court in a central region .
The Supreme Islamic Council of Somalia , SICS , which controls the capital , Mogadishu , says it is opening a sharia court in the central town Adaado .
Islamic officials say the area 's residents had invited them to impose sharia law .
The leader of the SICS , Sheikh Hassan Dahir Aweys , arrived in Adaado Monday to meet with the town 's elders .
Islamic leaders have been trying to widen their control from southern to central Somalia after ousting secular warlords from Mogadishu in June .
Somalia 's largely powerless transitional government , based in Baidoa , suffered another blow Tuesday , when four more ministers resigned , joining 18 officials who quit last week .
They say they resigned because the government of Prime Minister Mohammed Ali Gedi has failed to restore stability to Somalia .
Polish Prime Minister Kazimierz Marcinkiewicz says he is ordering an investigation into reports that the CIA had run secret prisons for suspected terrorists in Poland .
Mr. Marcinkiewicz told Polish television , TVN 24 , the matter must finally be closed because it could prove dangerous for Poland .
Polish authorities have repeatedly denied reports that Poland was the main European center for detaining such suspects .
Meanwhile , Germany 's Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier denied suggestions that his country 's security officers played any role in the detention of a German citizen by CIA agents .
Mr. Stainmeier told the newspaper Bild such reports are irresponsible .
He was referring to the case of Khaled el-Masri , who was mistakenly abducted by American agents in Macedonia in 2003 and held for five months in Afghanistan .
The European Union has formally taken over peacekeeping duties in Bosnia-Herzegovina from NATO .
EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana and NATO head Jaap de Hoop Scheffer oversaw the transfer of power ceremony Thursday at Sarajevo 's Camp Butmir .
NATO agreed earlier this year to turn over peacekeeping to the EU , citing what it called the improved security situation in Bosnia .
The new EU force , EUFOR , consists of about 7,000 soldiers .
NATO it is not completely withdrawing from Bosnia .
It will maintain a headquarters there to focus on fighting terrorism , gathering intelligence and arresting war crimes suspects .
NATO sent 60,000 peacekeepers to Bosnia in 1995 to enforce the Dayton Peace Accords that ended fighting among Bosnia 's ethnic Serbs , Muslims and Croats .
Lebanon 's pro-Syrian President Emile Lahoud is holding talks with parliamentary deputies to form a new government , following last week 's resignation of Prime Minister Omar Karameh 's cabinet in the face of growing anti-Syria protests .
Mr. Lahoud began consultations Wednesday , while Syrian troops continued to redeploy in eastern Lebanon , in the first stage of a withdrawal from the country .
On Tuesday , Lebanon 's ambassador to the United States , Imad Moustapha , said the troop pullout would be complete long before May , when Lebanon holds its parliamentary elections .
President Bush has demanded that Syria get all of its troops and intelligence personnel out of Lebanon before the vote .
Also on Tuesday , hundreds of thousands of demonstrators packed the streets of Beirut to show support for Syria .
The protest , called by the Syrian-backed Shi'ite militant group Hezbollah , dwarfed recent anti-Syrian demonstrations .
Serbia 's foreign minister says his country will not follow Russia 's example in recognizing the breakaway Georgian territories of South Ossetia and Abkhazia .
Vuk Jeremic told a Vienna newspaper Die PresseWednesday that recognizing such independence would not be in line with Serbian policy .
Jeremic reaffirmed Serbian gratitude for Moscow 's opposition to independence for Kosovo , the breakaway Serbian province that declared independence earlier this year .
But he emphasized that Serbia is " not a part of a Russian policy " and must act in accordance with its own best interests .
Serbia insists that the declaration of independence adopted by Kosovo 's Albanian leaders in February is illegal .
The United States and 46 other countries have recognized Kosovo independence .
Serbia , backed by veto-wielding U.N. Security Council member Russia , insists on maintaining sovereignty over the area .
On Tuesday , Serbia 's president asked the United Nations ' main judicial unit , the International Court of Justice , to weigh in on the legality of Kosovo 's declaration of independence .
President Boris Tadic , addressing the U.N. General Assembly , also said the move may create precedents for other breakaway regions .
Iran says it has arrested several Iranian journalists , charging that their work was aimed at fueling ethnic divisions within the country .
Iran 's intelligence ministry announced the arrests but has not named the journalists who were detained .
A ministry statement says the journalists admitted they were receiving significant sums of U.S. dollars from abroad to publish articles aimed at partitioning Iran .
The ministry did not say where the money was coming from .
Iran 's largest ethnic minorities include Kurds , Arabs , Azeris and Baluchis .
Human rights groups have criticized Iran for suppressing the rights of its ethnic minorities .
Last week , Iranian state media said Revolutionary Guard forces killed 17 rebels during a battle in the northwestern province of West Azerbaijan .
In February , rebels in the southeastern province of Sistan-Baluchistan bombed a bus carrying members of the Revolutionary Guard , killing eleven .
Iranian state media said a Sunni Muslim group named Jundollah claimed responsibility for that bombing .
Iran is mostly Shi'ite .
Major League Baseball 's 30 teams and its players ' association have announced that they will donate $ 1 million to help victims of last month 's Indian Ocean tsunami .
Commissioner Bud Selig said the horrific tsunami that devastated South Asia took an enormous toll that he called " incomprehensible " to those who watched the devastation on television .
Players ' union head Donald Fehr said his organization hopes the contribution will help those trying to rebuild their lives .
In addition the New York Yankees team , which has the highest payroll in baseball , will donate $ 1 million from the proceeds of its season opener against the World Series Champion Boston Red Sox April 3 .
Officials have warned opposition activists not to hold demonstrations
Pakistan briefly blocked two independent news channels Saturday , as they covered the standoff between militants and soldiers at army headquarters in Islamabad
The Geo and SAMA channels , were taken off the air for a short period of time .
The stations showed a message from Pakistan 's media regulatory body saying it is temporarily suspending transmission of " independent news TV channels " until further notice .
Both stations have been critical of the government in the past .
Residents of Somalia 's capital Mogadishu say clashes between rival militias Saturday killed at least 10 people and wounded at least 40 others .
Witnesses say civilians including women and children were among the casualties .
The fighting was sparked by a territorial dispute between gunmen loyal to Mogadishu 's Islamic courts and fighters allied with local warlords .
Somalia has been without an effective central government since 1991 , when warlords overthrew former President Mohamed Siad Barre .
The country 's interim government , set up in 2004 , has been hampered by disputes between the president and parliament speaker and their allies .
The interim parliament is scheduled to hold its first meeting on Somali soil next Sunday after previous meetings in Kenya .
Colombia 's government has agreed to temporarily release a jailed Marxist rebel leader in an effort to spur peace talks aimed at ending four decades of violence .
Officials said Wednesday that Francisco Galan , of the National Liberation Army would be freed for three months to allow him to negotiate with civil society leaders about launching talks with the government .
Earlier , officials blamed rebels from a larger Marxist group , the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia for bombing electrical towers in the southwest .
A similar attack Monday cut power to two million people in the area .
Meanwhile , the nation 's Supreme Court has approved the extradition request for paramilitary leader Diego Murillo to face drug charges in the United States .
The request now goes to President Alvaro Uribe for his approval or rejection .
Afghan officials say an Afghan security officer opened fire on U.S. troops while conducting a joint operation with them , killing two and wounding two others .
A spokesman for the governor of Wardak province said the shooting occurred late Friday while Afghan and U.S. forces were on patrol together in Wardak .
It is unclear what motivated the shooting .
A statement from NATO-led forces in Afghanistan said two U.S. soldiers died from injuries sustained in a " hostile attack " Friday , but declined to give further details .
NATO says two other U.S. troops died Friday in a bomb attack in southern Afghanistan .
Another died of wounds sustained in a bomb attack in eastern Afghanistan .
U.S. and NATO troops in Afghanistan have recently been facing stiffer Taliban resistance .
2009 is the deadliest year for foreign forces since the conflict began nearly eight years ago .
Witnesses in the Gaza Strip say gunmen have fired on the vehicle carrying the director of the United Nations refugee mission in Gaza .
The sources say 11 bullets hit the armored car of John Ging , the Gaza director of the U.N. Relief and Works Agency .
No one was hurt in the attack .
The Associated Press quotes Ging as saying the gunmen tried to force open the car , and that the attackers continued firing as his driver sped away .
He is quoted as describing the incident as a " shocking development . "
On Monday in Gaza , Palestinian gunmen abducted BBC reporter Alan Johnston .
He has not been heard from since .
There has been a series of kidnappings of foreigners in the Gaza Strip over the past year , with most of the hostages released within hours .
The Court of Arbitration for Sport has upheld the two-year doping ban given to German cyclist Danilo Hondo , after he twice tested positive for a stimulant ( carphedon ) at the Tour of Murcia in Spain last March .
Hondo appealed the ban which was handed down last June by the Swiss Olympic Association .
But the Lausanne-based arbitration court rejected Hondo 's appeal to have the ban annulled , saying the lab results clearly established the presence of the stimulant in the German cyclist 's urine .
The Court ruled that the usual two-year suspension provided for the International Cycling Union and World Anti-Doping Code should be imposed .
The 31-year-old Hondo was fired by the Swiss team Gerolsteiner last year , but has denied knowingly taking the stimulant .
Pakistani intelligence officials say a missile fired by an unmanned aircraft has killed at least 12 people in northwest Pakistan .
All such attacks by drone aircraft are believed to be carried out by U.S. forces .
Saturday 's missile strike , aimed at a compound in the village of Issori in North Waziristan , is the first known to have taken place since the start of monsoon floods that have battered much of the country .
During President Barack Obama 's administration there has been an increase in such remote-controlled air strikes against suspected al-Qaida and Taliban hideouts near Pakistan 's border with Afghanistan .
Pakistan 's government has protested against the attacks as a violation of its sovereignty .
Russian prosecutors say they have carried out searches of companies tied to the former Yukos oil empire , on suspicion of possible embezzlement and money laundering by the firm 's employees .
In a statement Wednesday , the prosecutor general 's office said that some Yukos employees , whom it did not name , may have sent company funds to so-called " front " companies abroad .
That announcement comes five months after a Moscow court sentenced former Yukos chief Mikhail Khodorkovsky to nine years in prison on fraud and tax evasion charges .
Critics of President Vladimir Putin call the Khodorkovsky prosecution and imprisonment retaliation for the oil tycoon 's support of Russia 's political opposition , a charge Kremlin authorities deny .
A court recently rejected Mr. Khodorkovsky 's appeal , but reduced his prison term by one year .
President Bush has returned to Washington after wrapping up a tour of South Asia that took him to Afghanistan , India and Pakistan .
The final leg of the trip was in Islamabad , where Mr. Bush held talks Saturday with Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf on a range of topics , including the war on terrorism and democratic reforms in Pakistan .
Mr. Bush praised the Pakistani leader 's commitment to fighting terror but warned that more work was needed to defeat al-Qaida .
Earlier in India , the U.S. president and Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh announced a landmark agreement to provide U.S. support for India 's civilian nuclear projects .
Mr. Bush 's trip began with a surprise visit to Afghanistan Wednesday , where he expressed the United States ' commitment to rebuilding the country .
The president 's trip sparked protests in several Indian and Pakistani cities .
India and the United States have signed an agreement to help each other investigate organized crime -- including terrorism , drug trafficking and economic offenses .
A statement by India 's interior ( Home ) ministry says the agreement is aimed at helping each other by exchanging evidence and transferring suspects so they can testify in court cases .
The pact will also make it easier for authorities in one country to issue search warrants and orders to seize assets on behalf of officials in the other nation .
It was signed by India 's Home Secretary V. K. Duggal and U.S. Ambassador David Mulford , who said the pact will enhance mutual cooperation to combat " criminal activities , drug trafficking and scourge of terrorism . "
Mr. Duggal said India is the 16th country to sign such a treaty with the United States .
The others include Britain , Canada , France , Russia and Switzerland .
A Spanish judge has ordered four Algerians held on charges of running a support network for an Islamic extremist group tied to al-Qaida and released seven others on bail while the investigation continues .
The 11 were arrested last week on suspicion of membership in a cell linked to the Algerian-based Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat .
Meanwhile , French police say they have detained six suspected Islamic extremists on charges of providing logistical support to radical networks .
Authorities say the suspects drew attention to themselves by possessing assets far above their earnings .
But officials say the six were not suspected of planning any attacks .
Police in Britain also announced the arrest north of London of a man suspected of purchasing weapons for use in terrorism .
In Denmark , authorities have released two of seven people arrested last month on suspicion of planning an attack in Europe .
Thai officials say the country plans to install the first tsunami warning system in the Indian Ocean this month , nearly two years after a series of massive waves killed some 2,50,000 people around the region .
Thailand 's National Disaster Warning Center and the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration are to install the first offshore devices on November 28 .
A network of sensors and buoys called the Deep Sea Tsunami Detection Equipment-2 will be installed about 1,100 kilometers off Thailand 's Andaman coast near the Nicobar Islands .
The head of Thailand 's disaster center , Smith Thammararoj , said Thursday that the system could save billions of lives .
About 5,300 people died in Thailand when the tsunami struck in December 2004 .
Eleven countries were affected by the killer waves .
The Voice of America is calling on the Ethiopian government to immediately restore accreditation to VOA reporters covering this week 's election-related protests .
Director David Jackson Friday called the action unwarranted and urged Ethiopian authorities to allow reporters to continue bringing uncensored news to VOA audiences in Africa and around the world .
The three VOA reporters , and two German radio reporters , were covering this week 's demonstrations in Ethiopia 's capital , Addis Ababa , where police opened fire on protesters , killing at least 26 people .
Hundreds of others , including opposition leaders , have been arrested .
Meanwhile , Ethiopia 's rival parties signed a deal Friday to end the clashes , which also includes an agreement on how to probe claims of electoral fraud .
Initial results indicate the ruling party won a majority , but opposition groups say the vote was rigged and declared victory .
Israel says it will not hand over control of any more West Bank towns to Palestinian security forces , because it says the Palestinian Authority is not disarming militants .
Wednesday 's decision by the Israeli security cabinet comes despite a recent Israeli truce pledge to transfer control of five West Bank towns to Palestinian police .
In return for that pledge , the Palestinians agreed at a February peace summit to end attacks on Israeli targets .
Since then , Israel has transferred control of Jericho and Tulkarem .
Talks were under way to complete the handover of three more towns when Israeli radio reported today 's cabinet decision .
Earlier , the Palestinian Authority said again it does not intend to disarm militants in the occupied territories .
But Palestinian security chief Rashid Abu Shbak said militants must still honor their February pledge to abide by the ongoing ceasefire .
The United Nations war crimes tribunal has ordered the immediate release of Mario Cerkez , a former Bosnian Croat commander convicted of atrocities against Muslim civilians in 1993 .
The tribunal 's appeals chamber said Thursday that a revision of Cerkez ' sentence is necessary , but added it will give the reasons for its release order on December 17 .
Analysts told the French news agency , AFP , the release order could mean that the tribunal has decided to reduce Cerkez ' sentence from 15 years to time already served .
In 2001 , the tribunal convicted Cerkez and another defendant , Dario Kordic , of leading a campaign of ethnic cleansing that virtually emptied parts of central Bosnia-Herzegovina of its Muslim population .
Both men pleaded not guilty and appealed their convictions .
Mr. Cerkez surrendered to the tribunal in 1997 .
Nigeria has approved the deployment of 2,000 peacekeeping troops to Sudan 's troubled Darfur region .
A defense spokesman , Brigadier General Ganiyu Adewale , says the first 700 soldiers will leave for Darfur on Friday .
They will boost an African Union force monitoring a shaky cease-fire in the region .
The A.U. force now consists of more than 2,000 soldiers and hundreds of civilian police officers .
Nigerian troops already are part of the force .
Officials hope to increase the size of the force to 12,000 by next year .
The conflict in Darfur pits rebels against government backed-militias .
The violence has left tens of thousands of people dead and more than two million displaced .
Iraqi officials say twin car bombs exploded outside the northern city of Mosul Monday , killing a prison official and one civilian .
Police say the bombs wounded at least 16 others when they detonated at a residential compound for security guards working at Badoosh prison .
The prison holds convicted insurgents , al-Qaida militants and other criminals from across Iraq .
Meanwhile in Baghdad , two car bombs killed at least one person and wounded seven others , including four police officers .
Insurgents have increasingly targeted Iraqi police and government employees in recent months .
The latest violence comes shortly after the chief of staff of Iraq 's armed forces ( Babaker Zibari ) told VOA ( Persian News Network ) that unlike in the past , al-Qaida members and other terrorists now have no permanent bases in Iraq .
The top international mediator in Bosnia-Herzegovina has warned the prime minister of the country 's Serb Republic , Milorad Dodik , against statements that question the country 's sovereignty and territorial integrity .
High Representative Miroslav Lajcak said the international community stands united in its determination not to tolerate any attempts to undermine the 1995 Dayton Peace Agreement that halted the Bosnian conflict .
He said that under the agreement , Bosnia is made up of two entities - the Serb Republic and Muslim-Croat Federation .
The mediator noted that in advance of last year 's elections , Mr. Dodik signed a pledge to honor the provisions of the accord .
The Bosnian Serb prime minister recently has questioned Bosnia 's constitutional structure and raised the issue of the Serb Republic 's possible secession from the country .
A top Indian official says a stalemate in the peace process with Pakistan will end only after Islamabad clamps down on terror groups operating from its territory .
Junior Minister for External Affairs , Anand Sharma , told the Indian media Sunday talks can only take place when Pakistan realizes the need to take firm action .
India called off a two day meeting between top diplomats from both countries following the train bombings in Mumbai ( formerly known as Bombay ) on July 11 , which killed nearly 200 people .
Indian investigators arrested eight suspects .
They say at least one of those arrested is believed to be a leader of the Pakistan-based Kashmiri militant group known as Lashkar-e-Toiba , which officials suspect was involved in the attacks .
Lashkar has denied any involvement
South Korea 's foreign ministry says a South Korean fishing boat has been seized by pirates off the coast of Somalia .
The ministry says eight armed assailants in two motor boats captured the vessel Tuesday .
All 25 crew members have been taken hostage .
Eight South Koreans , nine Indonesians , five Vietnamese and three Chinese were on board .
They have been confirmed safe .
The ministry says Dutch and U.S. naval vessels tried to intervene , but gave up after the ship entered Somali waters .
The ship was taken to a port in northeastern Somalia .
South Korea has set up a special task force to respond to the incident .
The International Maritime Bureau says the number of piracy incidents off Somalia jumped to 35 last year , up from just two in 2004 .
Cuba has condemned the execution of former Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein , calling it an " illegal act " in a country that has been " driven into internal conflict . "
The statement by Cuba 's Ministry of Foreign Relations appeared Monday in the newspaper , Granma , the government 's official publication .
The statement says Cuba has a moral obligation to speak out against , what it calls , the " assassination " of Saddam by an " occupying power , " referring to the United States .
The statement says Cuba has not itself abolished the death penalty because of the " brutal war " imposed on it by the U.S.
The United States had held Saddam since capturing him in December 2003 , but released him to the Iraqi government for hanging on Saturday .
China says a wild goose found in northwestern Qinghai province has tested positive for the H5N1 strain of bird flu .
The Agriculture Ministry announced Monday that tests on Saturday confirmed the goose died of avian influenza .
Officials say Qinghai agricultural authorities have sterilized the area where the dead bird was found .
The bird flu virus killed more than one thousand geese in Qinghai province last year .
The region is located along a major Asian migratory route for birds .
Researchers believe wild birds from the region may have carried bird flu along migratory paths to Europe .
Sri Lanka 's Tamil Tiger rebels say the group 's chief negotiator , Anton Balasingham , will lead their delegation in the upcoming peace talks with the government in Geneva , Switzerland .
The Sri Lankan government has named Health Minister Nimal Siripala de Silva to head its delegation in the two days of talks set to begin February 22 .
Norwegian peace-broker Erik Solheim announced the date Monday after meeting in London with Balasingham .
The talks will be aimed at salvaging a Norway-brokered truce that went into effect in February 2002 .
Although subsequent peace talks broke down one year later , the truce more or less held until recently .
But renewed violence has put that truce in jeopardy .
Since December , more than 150 Sri Lankans have been killed .
Many Muslims around the world are celebrating the first day of Eid al-Fitr , a festival marking the end of a month-long fast .
In Saudi Arabia Sunday , thousands gathered in Mecca for special early morning prayers marking the end of Ramadan .
Jordan 's King Abdullah joined a prayer service in the Red Sea port of Aqaba .
And Islamic faithful joined services in Egypt and Iraq .
In Washington , President Barack Obama released a statement greeting Muslims on the occasion , calling it a time to celebrate and remember those less fortunate .
The start of the three-day Eid holiday varies in Muslim communities and countries , depending on the sighting of the new crescent moon .
During the holiday , Muslims visit friends and neighbors , exchange gifts and enjoy lunchtime feasts .
It breaks the month-long fast of Ramadan , when Muslims abstain from eating , drinking , smoking and sexual relations from sunrise to sundown .
At least 15 leftist rebels have been killed in clashes with Colombian troops .
Colombian officials said Sunday most of those killed were members of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia ( FARC ) .
The fighting came two days after FARC forces attacked two towns , killing three police officers and a girl .
For more than 40 years , Colombia has been mired in a civil war involving the 12,000 strong FARC and a smaller rebel group , rightist paramilitaries and the government .
The conflict leaves thousands of people dead each year .
Costa Rican President Abel Pacheco has criticized a proposal by U.S. lawmakers to build a wall between the United States and Mexico to halt illegal immigration .
President Pacheco told a Mexico City news conference Tuesday that he questioned the effectiveness of such a wall and suggested U.S. resources could be better used .
The Costan Rican president had been meeting with foreign ministers from several other Central American nations this week to discuss regional immigration issues .
The group issued a statement expressing concern over draft legislation in the U.S. Congress that includes punishing illegal immigrants .
Last month , the U.S. House of Representatives passed a measure calling for the construction of security fencing along the southern U.S. border with Mexico in an effort to curb illegal border-crossing .
The measure must still be considered by the U.S. Senate .
Officials in Afghanistan say two NATO soldiers have been wounded in a bomb attack in the north of the country .
The roadside blast hit a convoy of the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force Thursday in Baghlan province , 160 kilometers north of Kabul .
Local officials say two Dutch soldiers were wounded .
Taleban fighters have been involved in clashes with U.S. and Afghan government troops in the south and east of the country .
Officials say some anti-government militants operate in the north , but attacks there are rare .
U.S. housing construction plunged to the second-lowest level on record in March , possible evidence that the troubled housing sector has not yet hit bottom .
Thursday 's report from the Commerce Department says construction of new homes fell 10.8 percent last month .
If building continued at that pace for a whole year , only 5,10,000 homes would go up across the nation .
A Labor Department report says the number of Americans getting long-term unemployment aid hit yet another record-high , just above six million last week .
But the job market 's problems may be easing , as the number of people signing up for first time jobless aid declined by 53,000 to a total of 6,10,000 .
The chief prosecutor in the trial of ousted Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein has detailed government documents surrounding the deadly crackdown on an Iraqi village .
In the paperwork is a document prosecutors said was signed by Saddam approving the execution of 148 Shi'ite Muslim villagers in Dujail .
That item was presented Tuesday .
After Wednesday 's session , the trial was adjourned until March 12 .
Saddam and seven co-defendants are on trial for the killing of more than 140 villagers in Dujail .
The deaths were part of a crackdown following an assassination attempt against Saddam in Dujail .
The defendants face hanging if convicted .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has emphatically restated his refusal to hold a national referendum on his Gaza withdrawal plan , telling his Likud party that referendum calls are a stalling tactic by opponents of the plan .
In a brief address Thursday , Mr. Sharon noted widespread Israeli public support for the plan to withdraw troops and settlers from Gaza and four small West Bank enclaves later this year .
He accused opponents of the pull-out of trying to hide their opposition behind the referendum calls .
Tuesday , Foreign Minister Silvan Shalom broke ranks with Mr. Sharon , saying he will lead a referendum push .
Polls show at least two-thirds of Israelis favor the pullout , but there is strong opposition from settlers and their supporters .
Mr. Sharon says pull-out opponents have threatened lawmakers , army officers and security officials to gain their support for a referendum .
Moscow has demanded that the United States extradite Leonid Nevzlin , a key executive of Russia 's embattled oil firm Yukos .
The Russian Embassy in Washington submitted the extradition request on Tuesday to the U.S. Department of State and accused Mr. Nevzlin of ordering a series of killings .
The State Department has not yet responded .
Mr. Nevzlin , who has been living in exile in Israel , visited Washington this week to address the U.S. Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe .
The address covered how the controversial Yukos case was affecting politics and investments in Russia .
The former chief of Yukos , Mikhail Khodorkovsky , was recently sentenced to nine years in prison on tax evasion and fraud charges .
Critics have argued that the case was retaliation for the businessman 's support of the political opposition .
Kremlin officials insisted that they are cracking down on corporate crime .
Iran says it is willing to return to nuclear negotiations with the European Union , but also says it will not suspend nuclear fuel processing .
Iran Foreign Ministry spokesman Reza Asefi told a news conference in Tehran Sunday the Iranian government is ready to continue unconditional talks .
He said he was hopeful the two sides could reach an agreement and avoid a referral to the U.N. Security Council .
Britain , France and Germany have said they want Iran to halt uranium processing at its Isfahan plant , which Tehran resumed in August .
Otherwise , they said they will back U.S. efforts to refer Iran to the Security Council where it could eventually face sanctions .
The United States say Iran is secretly trying to develop nuclear weapons .
Tehran says its nuclear program will only be used to generate electricity .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has criticized the outcry about the case of an Iranian woman sentenced to die by stoning .
The United States , European Union and international human rights groups have all urged Tehran to stay the execution of Sakineh Mohammadi Ashtiani .
But Ahmadinejad said Thursday the criticism is unfair because the U.S. has sentenced women to death without similar backlash .
He also said the case is still under investigation .
Ashtiani is a 43-year-old mother of two who was first convicted in 2006 for having an " illicit relationship " with two men after the death of her husband the year before .
She was sentenced at the time to 99 lashes .
Later that year , she was also convicted of adultery and sentenced to be stoned , even though she retracted a confession that she says was made under duress .
Security forces loyal to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas 's Fatah faction have arrested more than 50 rival Hamas activists in the occupied West Bank .
Among those arrested by Mr. Abbas 's forces Monday in the city of Nablus were several prominent local leaders and university professors .
Authorities have not immediately given a reason for the arrests .
Tensions are running high between the rival Palestinian factions since a bombing in the Gaza Strip last Friday killed five Hamas members and a young girl .
Hamas accused Fatah of carrying out the attack , and has detained at least 160 Fatah supporters in Gaza .
Fatah has denied involvement , blaming the blast on Hamas infighting .
The two Palestinian factions have been at odds since Hamas routed Fatah forces in a civil war last year and seized control of Gaza .
U.S. weather forecasters say Hurricane Wilma has strengthened to a powerful category 5 storm and a key low-pressure measurement indicates it is the most powerful storm of the year .
A statement from the U.S. National Hurricane Center says reconnaissance aircraft tracking the storm reported one of the lowest pressure measurements ever recorded .
Lower pressure is one indicator of a more intense hurricane .
Forecasters say Wilma is 270 kilometers south of Grand Cayman and continues moving northwest at about 13 kilometers per hour .
Hurricane watches and a tropical storm warnings remain in effect for the Cayman islands and points west .
Officials say early projections show Wilma is likely to enter the Gulf of Mexico between the Yucatan Peninsula and Cuba before heading towards the southwestern Florida coast later this week .
Pakistani police say Taliban militants have killed two Afghan nationals for allegedly acting as spies for U.S. forces in Afghanistan .
Police say they found the bullet-ridden bodies of two brothers Sunday in a village located in Pakistan 's lawless tribal region of North Waziristan .
Police say a note found with the bodies said the two men were spies from the neighboring Afghan province of Khost .
U.S.-led forces toppled the hard-line Taliban regime in Afghanistan in 2001 .
Many militants fled to Pakistan after the attack and continue to stage attacks across the border .
The U.S. has responded to the Taliban 's threats with occasional missile strikes in Pakistan 's tribal areas , which has prompted outcries from Pakistani citizens .
Police in Israel have arrested the captain of a cargo ship that collided with a Japanese fishing boat in the Pacific last month , an accident that killed seven Japanese crew members .
The Israeli captain and other crew members were detained for questioning Sunday when their ship , the Zim Asia , docked in the northern Israeli port city of Haifa .
Police say the captain and others could face charges of " causing accidental death " as well as for failing to help the crew of the capsized boat .
Only one of the Japanese fishermen aboard the Shinsei Maru No. 3 survived the collision on September 28 .
The captain of the Zim Asia , Moshe Ben-David , has previously said he was unaware of any collision , but the Zim shipping company has apologized for the incident and offered compensatiion to the victims .
Indonesia 's top bird flu official says the country hopes to cut human cases from the virus to zero by the end of 2007 .
Speaking with reporters Friday , Bayu Krisnamurthi said Indonesia does not want to see any new human cases of the H5N1 strain of bird flu by the end of next year .
Indonesia plans to boost public awareness of the disease and restructure its poultry industry to reach its goal .
International aid will nearly double next year , increasing to $ 65 million .
Indonesia has the world 's highest death toll from bird flu - 57 .
The latest bird flu victim died on November 28 .
The H5N1 strain of bird flu has killed more than 150 people worldwide since 2003 , with most of the deaths in Asia .
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has met Iranian leaders in Tehran to discuss regional tensions and bilateral trade .
Mr. Erdogan had separate meetings Sunday with Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and Vice President Parviz Davoodi .
Iranian state media say Mr. Erdogan raised Iraq 's security situation during the talks .
Iran and Turkey share borders with Iraq and are concerned about sectarian violence in the country .
The Turkish prime minister also said he would discuss boosting trade with Iran .
He is accompanied on the visit by Turkish oil and gas officials .
Relations between Iran and Turkey have not always been smooth .
Turkey has good relations with the United States and Israel , two countries viewed as hostile by Iran 's government .
Officials in Baghdad say five suspects arrested in the kidnapping and murder of British aid worker Margaret Hassan have admitted involvement in her death .
An Iraqi police spokesman says the men , along with several others , were detained after two early morning raids Sunday in a town south of Baghdad .
He said during the first raid , American and Iraqi troops found several articles believed to be related to the 59-year-old aid worker abducted last October .
Although her body has not been found , a video released to an Arabic news channel , al-Jazeera , showed the murder of a western woman believed to be Mrs. Hassan .
The station refused to air the entire tape for what it called humanitarian reasons .
Married to an Iraqi man , the former director of the Baghdad office of CARE International spent 30 years caring for Iraq 's poorest citizens .
Pope John Paul saw Asia - with its tens of thousands of annual conversions to the Catholic church - as fertile ground for evangelization .
He once referred to the continent as " a church that is still being born . "
The pope made at least a dozen trips to Asian nations during his 26-year papacy .
He twice visited the Philippines - home to two-thirds of Asia 's Catholics and the only predominantly Roman Catholic nation in Asia .
His 1995 trip drew an estimated three-million people .
He also visited South Korea , Indonesia , Thailand , Japan and Singapore , among other countries .
Among the Asian nations that Pope John Paul had hoped to travel to and never did were Vietnam , Cambodia , Laos , and Mongolia .
Church officials say he never ruled out a visit to North Korea .
Indonesia 's Mount Merapi erupted with renewed force Wednesday , prompting evacuations of residents from emergency shelters to locations even further from the volcano .
Indonesian government volcanologist Surano said Wednesday 's eruption was three times more powerful than Merapi 's first blast on October 26 .
The volcano sent hot ash and rocks five kilometers into the sky , forcing authorities to widen the evacuation zone around the mountain from 10 kilometers to 15 kilometers .
The new eruption happened as Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono visited emergency shelters housing 70,000 evacuees from earlier eruptions .
Surano said shelters within the expanded danger zone will be moved further away .
It may be weeks before the evacuees can return to their homes .
Mount Merapi 's eruptions have killed at least 38 people , most from burns and suffocation .
There was no immediate word of any casualties from Wednesday 's blast .
In Hiroshima , Japan , tens of thousands of people gathered Saturday to reflect on the explosion exactly 60 years before of an atom bomb in the sky above the city .
The city observed a moment of silence at 8.15 in the morning local time , when the world 's first atomic bomb attack occurred on August 6 , 1945 .
In a speech at Hiroshima 's Peace Memorial Park , the city 's mayor called for all nations possessing nuclear weapons to abandon their arsenals .
The atomic bomb , dropped on Hiroshima by a U.S. bomber during World War II , killed more than 1,40,000 people .
Three days later , another atom bomb killed more than 80,000 in Nagasaki , Japan .
Japan surrendered on August 15 , 1945 , ending World War II .
Afghan officials and residents say civilians are among the dead and wounded following U.S. coalition airstrikes in southern Afghanistan .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says Thursday 's strikes in a remote area of Baghran district in Helmand province targeted two Taleban commanders .
A statement said there were no civilians in the area .
It also said the fate of the commanders was not known .
A provincial police chief , Mohammad Hussein Andiwal , says there were heavy casualties during the strikes but did not know exactly how many Taleban militants and Afghan civilians were killed .
Residents in Baghran district say as many as 200 civilians died .
Hundreds of civilians have been killed during NATO and U.S. military operations against insurgents .
Angry Afghans have protested and President Hamid Karzai has called the situation unacceptable .
Mr. Karzai is scheduled to meet with President Bush at the Camp David presidential retreat north of Washington on Sunday and Monday .
France has placed its former ambassador to the United Nations under investigation for alleged involvement in the Iraqi oil-for-food program scandal .
Jean-Bernard Merimee appeared in a Paris court Wednesday to hear accusations of corruption .
He was freed on bail .
French judicial officials say Mr. Merimee is suspected of receiving illegal payments from oil sales by former Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein 's regime .
He is one of 10 French officials and business leaders suspected of corruption in the program that allowed Iraq to sell a limited amount of oil to buy food and medicine .
U.N. sanctions barred Iraq from regular oil sales .
Mr. Merimee was French Ambassador to the U.N. from 1991 until 1995 and was later an advisor to Secretary General Kofi Annan .
China says it is sharply increasing government spending on AIDS prevention in an effort to limit the spread of ( HIV ) the virus that causes the disease .
The China Daily reports the annual budget for AIDS prevention programs will rise to 185-million dollars over the next two years - nearly twice the $ 99 million spent this year on anti-AIDS campaigns .
Beijing 's spending on AIDS prevention has increased dramatically since 2001 , when $ 12 million was budgeted for such efforts .
Wednesday 's announcement says China intends to drastically reduce the spread of HIV and AIDS , aiming for a maximum 1.5 million infections by 2010 .
Beijing says 8,40,000 Chinese are currently HIV-positive , but some experts believe that sharply understates the TRUE extent of infection ( in the world 's most populous country ) .
The World Health Organization estimates the AIDS virus could spread to up to 10 million Chinese during the next five years .
Nepalese police detained 41 Tibetans Sunday for illegal entry into the country .
The group was detained at the Thankot police checkpoint outside Kathmandu , after traveling from Bhairahawa , about 280 kilometers southwest of the capital .
A government official said all of them were handed over to the immigration department in Kathmandu Sunday afternoon .
More than 2,500 Tibetan refugees enter Nepal illegally annually in an attempt to reach India , where the Dalai Lama 's government in exile is based .
Economic activity is limited to servicing meteorological and geophysical research stations , military bases , and French and other fishing fleets .
The fish catches landed on Iles Kerguelen by foreign ships are exported to France and Reunion .
The Gambia has sparse natural resource deposits and a limited agricultural base , and relies in part on remittances from workers overseas and tourist receipts .
About three-quarters of the population depends on the agricultural sector for its livelihood .
Small-scale manufacturing activity features the processing of peanuts , fish , and hides .
The Gambia 's natural beauty and proximity to Europe has made it one of the larger markets for tourism in West Africa , boosted by government and private sector investments in eco-tourism and upscale facilities .
In the past few years , The Gambia 's re-export trade - traditionally a major segment of economic activity - has declined , but its banking sector has grown rapidly .
Unemployment and underemployment rates remain high ; economic progress depends on sustained bilateral and multilateral aid , on responsible government economic management , and on continued technical assistance from multilateral and bilateral donors .
The quality of fiscal management , however , is weak .
The government has promised to raise civil service wages over the next two years and the deficit is projected to worsen .
First settled by the French in the early 17th century , the islands represent the sole remaining vestige of France 's once vast North American possessions .
Offshore banking , manufacturing , and tourism are key sectors of the economy .
The government offers low taxes and other incentives to high-technology companies and financial institutions to locate on the island ; this has paid off in expanding employment opportunities in high-income industries .
As a result , agriculture and fishing , once the mainstays of the economy , have declined in their contributions to GDP .
The Isle of Man also attracts online gambling sites and the film industry .
Trade is mostly with the UK .
The Isle of Man enjoys free access to EU markets .
Guernsey and the other Channel Islands represent the last remnants of the medieval Dukedom of Normandy , which held sway in both France and England .
The islands were the only British soil occupied by German troops in World War II .
Guernsey is a British crown dependency but is not part of the UK or of the European Union .
However , the UK Government is constitutionally responsible for its defense and international representation .
Bolivian opposition leaders have staged protests against President Evo Morales in three of the country 's provinces .
Friday 's protests were centered in the wealthy eastern region of Santa Cruz .
The demonstrators say Mr. Morales has unfairly excluded them from taking part in a planned re-write of Bolivia 's constitution .
The president 's Movement Toward Socialism Party controls the assembly formed to re-write the constitution .
The party wants to make amendments based on a simple majority of votes .
Opposition parties say a two-thirds majority should be required for such changes .
Mr. Morales has vowed to give greater political and economic power to the poor and indigenous peoples in Bolivia .
His recent moves to redistribute land ownership and nationalize the country 's oil and natural gas sectors have been unpopular among conservatives .
Iran 's parliament speaker has criticized U.S. President-elect Barack Obama for saying Tehran 's pursuit of nuclear weapons is unacceptable .
Iranian state media ( IRNA ) quotes Ali Larijani as saying Mr. Obama 's remark signifies pursuit of what Larijani called the same " erroneous U.S. policy of the past . "
Larijani said the United States should send appropriate signals to Middle Eastern countries if it wants to change the situation in the region .
Mr. Obama referred to Iran 's atomic program on Friday in his first news conference since winning the U.S. presidential election .
He also said Iran 's support for terrorist groups must cease .
He also said he will review a letter of congratulation sent to him by Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and respond appropriately .
The United States and its Western allies accuse Iran of working to produce a nuclear weapon .
Iran says its atomic program is intended solely to generate electricity .
A new U.S. military report concludes that top Pentagon officials did not direct or encourage the abuse of prisoners in U.S. custody .
Government officials who have read the report say it blames the abuse on low-level leadership and confusion over interrogation rules that were changed multiple times .
Vice Admiral Albert Church conducted a review of U.S. prisoner interrogation techniques that led to the report .
He will present his findings at a hearing of the U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee Thursday .
The Washington Post newspaper says the report largely summarizes previous military probes , and sheds little new light on the ongoing prisoner abuse controversy .
Two civil rights groups recently sued Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld , saying he approved a list of rough interrogation techniques and did nothing to stop the abuse of prisoners once he learned about it .
Lawyers for eight communities from Nigeria 's oil-producing Niger Delta have filed suit demanding that international oil firms stop burning off gas - a process known as " flaring . "
Activists argue that flaring pollutes the environment and contributes to global warming .
The Nigerian government and oil companies have promised to phase out the practice over the next several years .
But oil giant Royal Dutch Shell has admitted its plan to stop burning off gas from its wells and rigs - which produces huge orange flames following by dense black smoke - is behind schedule .
Nigeria is Africa 's biggest oil producing nation , pumping an estimated 2.3 billion barrels of crude per day .
Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas says delays by Israel in carrying out promises made in a recent ceasefire deal are undermining the peace process .
In comments to the Palestinian parliament Tuesday , Mr. Abbas said Israel has been slow to act on the release of prisoners and its promise to withdraw from parts of the West Bank .
He made his remarks ahead of a meeting later today with Israeli Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz .
They are expected to discuss the handover to the Palestinian Authority of the West Bank town of Tulkarem .
Their talks will be the highest-level discussions between the two sides since last month 's historic summit in Egypt , where Israel and the Palestinians signed a truce aimed at renewing the peace process .
Afghan man looks at the waistcoat , stained with blood , of Mullah Abdul Fayaz Suspected Taleban militants have killed a leading Muslim cleric in southern Afghanistan .
Local authorities say Mullah Abdul Fayaz was shot and killed in front of his office in Kandahar city Sunday by two gunmen on a motorcycle .
So far , no one has claimed responsibility for the attack .
But the French news agency quoted a spokesman for the ousted Taleban as saying Mullah Fayaz was preaching against the Taleban and " deserved to die " .
Mr. Fayaz was a supporter of Afghan President Hamid Karzai .
Last week , he lead a gathering of clerics from across Afghanistan who condemned the Taleban and called on people to support the government .
The Taleban have declared a holy war against Mr. Karzai 's U.S.-backed government and anyone supporting the presence of foreign troops and aid workers .
Insurgents in Iraq carried out a series of attacks against security forces in Baghdad early Thursday , killing more than 20 people .
Police say a suicide bombing at an army recruitment center in a western part of the capital killed at least 13 people and wounded several others .
Elsewhere in Baghdad , nine policemen were killed when gunmen ambushed two police patrols .
And , a security guard was killed in a car bomb blast that was apparently aimed at a senior Interior Ministry official , who escaped injuries .
Meanwhile , the death toll from Wednesday 's suicide bombing in the northern Kurdish city of Irbil has risen to 60 .
The militant group Ansar al-Sunnah claimed responsibility for that attack , saying it was in retaliation for Kurdish cooperation with U.S. and coalition forces .
Insurgents have stepped up attacks across Iraq since Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari announced a partial cabinet last week .
France 's lower house of parliament , the National Assembly , has voted to extend a national state of emergency for three months in response to the worst civil unrest to hit the country in decades .
The vote followed hours of debate as the opposition Socialists called the extension unnecessary because the violence is abating .
Police officials say only 215 vehicles were burned Monday night in the 19th straight night of violence in predominantly Muslim-inhabited areas of the country .
Some officials described the development as almost a return to normal .
Earlier , Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin made a surprise visit to the Paris suburb of Aulnay-sous-Bois hard-hit by the riots .
He said authorities will be firm with lawbreakers , but stressed his determination to deal with injustice , discrimination and unemployment .
Turkey has accused several neighboring countries of concealing bird flu outbreaks and hampering an effort to stop the spread of the disease .
Agriculture Minister Mehdi Eker told a news conference Friday Turkey has knowledge through unofficial sources that bird flu exists in what he described as " neighboring countries , which are ruled by closed regimes . "
He did not name the countries , but said their governments do not declare the existence of the disease .
Ankara has reported at least four deaths from the H5N1 strain of bird flu .
Turkey 's outbreak is centered in the east , bordering Syria , Iraq , Iran and Armenia .
The U.N. Food and Agricultural Organization has warned that the bird flu that has hit Turkey may already have arrived in neighboring countries .
The FAO urged authorities in those nations to increase efforts to detect outbreaks .
A suicide car bomb attack on a U.S. embassy convoy in Afghanistan 's capital , Kabul , has killed one Afghan teenager and injured several other people .
Joe Mellot , a U.S. Embassy spokesman , says Ambassador Ronald Neumann was not in the convoy .
But he says several embassy officials and pedestrians were seriously wounded .
Monday 's car bombing took place on a busy main road leading to the U.S. base at Bagram .
Taleban militants have claimed responsibility for the attack .
It comes as NATO , U.S. and Afghan forces prepare for an increase in attacks from the Taleban .
Last year , a resurgent Taleban movement staged the highest number of suicide bombings and other attacks in Afghanistan since the ouster of the Taleban government by U.S. led forces in 2001 .
NATO has launched an offensive in southern Afghanistan to preempt an anticipated spring offensive by Taleban militants .
The Bush administration says terrorist suspects being held in Guantanamo Bay , Cuba , have no constitutional right to challenge their detention in U.S. civilian courts .
In court papers filed Monday , the Justice Department asked an appeals court to dismiss hundreds of cases by detainees at the prison camp .
Lawyers for the detainees have argued the government can not detain terrorist suspects overseas and hold them without access to civilian courts .
But the Justice Department says a new law signed by President Bush last month gives military officials broad authority to detain suspects abroad .
Officials have created a system of military commissions to prosecute cases against suspects at Guantanamo Bay .
Military officials say hearings could begin early next year for dozens of suspected terrorists at the camp .
Iraq 's foreign minister says he has asked Iran for information about the three Americans being held in Iran for allegedly crossing the border without permission .
Hoshyar Zebari says he brought up the Americans during a meeting this week with Iran 's Ambassador Hassan Kazemi Qomi , but he does not give further details about the conversation .
The United States does not have diplomatic ties with Iran and is working through the Swiss embassy in Tehran to obtain information on the hikers .
Shane Bauer , Sarah Shourd and Josh Fattal were detained by Iranian authorities on July 31 after allegedly crossing the border while hiking in the mountains of Iraq 's Kurdistan region .
Iranian television has described the three as spies .
Shon Meckfessel , a friend who says he stayed behind at an Iraqi hotel because he was sick , has said the other hikers made a " simple and very regrettable mistake . "
The presidents of Iraq and Afghanistan are among those gathering in Austria Monday for a three-day international conference on Islam .
Austrian Foreign Minister Ursula Plassnik says the conference , titled " Islam in a Pluralistic World , " is aimed at improving understanding and dialogue between Muslims and non-Muslims .
Iraqi President Jalal Talabani , Afghan President Hamid Karzai and former Iranian president Mohammed Khatami are expected to attend .
So is 2003 Nobel Peace Prize winner and Iranian human rights attorney Shirin Ebadi .
The conference comes amid increasing awareness of the differences over how Muslims and non-Muslims in Europe view Islam 's place in their society .
Lebanon 's top Shi'ite cleric is opposing British Prime Minister Tony Blair 's expected visit to Beirut Monday .
Mr. Blair is visiting the region to support peace efforts , saying the ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah militants represents a window of opportunity for progress .
On Sunday , Lebanon 's Grand Ayatollah Mohammed Hussein Fadlallah said Mr. Blair is not welcome in Beirut because of his support for Israel and the United States .
The cleric said Mr. Blair should have demanded a quick cease-fire to end hostilities .
Tight security and protests are expected in the Lebanese capital during Mr. Blair 's visit .
The British leader travels to Beirut from Israel , where Palestinian and Israeli leaders pledged to revive stalled peace talks .
A date for a meeting between Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert has not been set .
The White House has welcomed a Dubai company 's request for a new security review of its planned take-over of some operations at six American ports .
White House spokesman Scott McClellan said Monday that the new review should dispel the concerns of some lawmakers .
He said President Bush remains confident that the $ 7-billion deal does not present a security problem .
Sunday , Dubai Ports World said it plans to ask U.S. officials to conduct a 45-day review of the proposed deal , which would be broader than an earlier inquiry .
Some U.S. lawmakers , however , say they still have concerns about possible terrorist links to Dubai , and have threatened to block the deal .
President Bush has said he will veto any legislation blocking or delaying the deal .
The Treasury Department says the new review will be conducted by the same panel of national security agencies involved in the initial study .
A man whose home was raided by British police on suspicion of terrorism said police never identified themselves and shot him without warning .
Mohammed Abdul Kahar was shot in the shoulder when about 250 police officers burst into his home before dawn on June 2 .
The police were acting on information that a chemical bomb was being made on the property .
Kahar and his brother , Abul Koyair , were detained on suspicion of terrorism and released without charge a week later .
Both brothers said in a news conference Tuesday , that they were beaten by police during the raid .
The London police have come under heavy criticism for the raid .
They have defended their actions , saying they received very specific intelligence that they had to act on .
The U.S. Justice Department has opened a civil rights investigation into the beating of a 64-year old black man in flood-ravaged New Orleans .
The probe announced Monday was launched following the release of a videotape showing two uniformed New Orleans police officers repeatedly punching Robert Davis in the face and body as he was being arrested for public drunkedness .
Another officer is shown shoving and screaming at a news producer who was documenting the confrontation .
The three white police officers have been suspended from the police force without pay .
In court Monday , the men pleaded not guilty to charges of battery in connection with the Saturday evening incident .
An attorney for Mr. Davis said his client had not been drinking .
He said the retired school teacher had suffered fractures to the head from the beating , but was expected to recover .
The European Union says U.S. airstrikes in Somalia are not helpful to efforts to bring long-term stability to the war-torn east African nation .
Tuesday , a spokesman for E.U. Development Commissioner Louis Michel said the withdrawal of Ethiopian troops and the deployment of an international peacekeeping force are the best ways to ensure Somalia 's security .
He said only a political solution that includes all of Somalia 's political forces can bring lasting peace and stability to the nation .
The U.S. military has confirmed an AC-130 gunship carried out air strikes in southern Somalia Sunday .
It says the attack targeted the principal al-Qaida leadership in the region .
Israel 's military chief , Lieutenant-General Dan Halutz , has resigned amid inquiries into last year 's conflict with Hezbollah guerrillas in Lebanon .
General Halutz submitted his resignation to Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Defense Minister Amir Peretz Tuesday .
He said he decided " it was time for him to assume responsibilities " and step down , after overseeing the military 's own investigations into the war .
Israel 's Defense Ministry says General Halutz will remain in his post until a successor is named .
General Halutz as well as the Olmert government faced heavy criticism over the military 's performance during the 34-day war .
The conflict ended with Israel falling short of its goals of stopping Hezbollah from firing rockets into Israel and of securing the release of two Israeli soldiers .
Hezbollah gunmen had seized the two soldiers in a deadly cross border raid .
Two federal policemen walk past crosses standing where eight women were found sexually assaulted and murdered in 2001 in Ciudad Juarez Mexican authorities say one woman has been murdered and another raped in a city on the U.S. border known for hundreds of violent crimes against women for more than a decade .
Officials say a 20-year-old woman was stabbed and sexually assaulted before her body was dumped on the street in an industrial district .
Her body was found Thursday , the same day another woman was raped , beaten and left for dead in the middle of a street .
About 350 women have been brutally murdered over a 12-year period in Ciudad Juarez , Mexico , located just across the border from the southwestern U.S. city of El~Paso , Texas .
More than 100 of the victims were sexually assaulted .
Iran and Egypt are to hold talks aimed at restoring full bilateral relations .
A spokesman for the Egyptian Foreign Ministry , Hossam Zaki said Tuesday , the two countries have agreed to continue dialogue at the level of senior officials and then foreign ministers .
Iran severed ties with Egypt in 1980 to protest Cairo 's recognition of Israel the year before .
Iran angered Egypt , in turn , by naming a street after the assassin of Anwar Sadat , the Egyptian leader killed in 1981 after he made peace with Israel .
In May , Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said Tehran is ready to restore full diplomatic relations with Egypt , and could open its embassy in Cairo as soon as the Egyptian government agreed .
Iran and Egypt currently have interest sections in their respective countries .
Oil giant ExxonMobil 's profits surged to a record in the last three months of 2005 .
The world 's largest publicly traded oil company Monday said it made $ 10.7 billion in the fourth quarter .
The results were $ 2.3 billion better than the same period a year ago , and even larger than analysts expected .
ExxonMobil benefited from record-high oil prices that soared as strong demand from growing economies in India , China , and the United States outstripped what oil exporting nations could produce .
The Bloomberg Financial News service reports that ExxonMobil 's annual sales are larger than the gross domestic product of some significant nations like Sweden or Indonesia .
Polish police have arrested more than 200 people in Warsaw , after supporters of a Polish football team went on a rampage to celebrate their team 's championship .
At least 30 policemen were injured , as fans of Legia Warsaw smashed up shops and outdoor cafes in the capital 's Old Town quarter that is popular with tourists .
Drunken fans hurled stones at police , who responded with tear gas and water cannon .
Football-related violence has been a growing problem in Poland , prompting concerns that Polish fans could cause trouble at next month 's World Cup in Germany .
Top aides of the Bush administration have met with African American leaders amid criticism of the federal government 's response to Hurricane Katrina .
The meeting , held at the White House , came a day after U.S. congressman Elijah Cummings , a Democrat from Maryland , complained about a slow response in helping residents of stricken areas , a majority of whom are black .
Mr. Cummings says he believes the meeting was to assure black leaders that any missteps in getting relief to hurricane victims would be corrected .
Among those represented at the meeting were the Congressional Black Caucus , the Urban League and the NAACP ( National Association for the Advancement of Colored People ) .
Britain 's top defense official is in Afghanistan to discuss the role of NATO troops in the country , after some member nations said they want NATO forces to be limited to peacekeeping missions .
While in Kabul for talks Saturday , Defense Secretary John Reid told reporters alliance members needed " to work through " the issue of whether NATO forces should be involved in offensive combat missions .
Such operations are currently handled by the U.S.-led coalition forces .
Britain is expected to deploy more troops under NATO 's umbrella to Afghanistan 's restive southern region .
Last month , Germany , France and Spain expressed concern that peacekeeping operations and offensive operations would be linked together under one mission .
India and the United States have announced plans to boost defense relations , after Washington unveiled plans to sell an undetermined amount of F-16 fighter jets to India 's rival , Pakistan .
Under the agreement with India , the Bush administration is offering to increase missile defense and other security high-tech initiatives , as well as to expand economic and energy cooperation .
The accord was announced Friday , shortly after Washington said it would sell the fighter jets to Pakistan , in a major policy shift .
The United States banned the sale of fighter jets to Pakistan 15 years ago because of its nuclear weapons program .
Officials say the ban was lifted because of President Pervez Musharraf 's decision to stand with the U.S.-led war on terrorism .
U.S. officials say the administration aims to maintain the balance of power between India and Pakistan .
The Zaragoza airport in northern Spain was evacuated Wednesday after it received threats made in the name of the Basque separatist group ETA .
Officials say they received word that a rocket launcher had been set up to carry out an attack during a two-hour time frame .
Police found no explosives or any evidence an attack was planned .
The airport has been reopened .
ETA fired a rocket at the Zaragoza airport in June , but no one was hurt .
ETA has been blamed for more than 800 deaths since the 1960s when it began its armed campaign for an independent Basque state in northern Spain and southwestern France .
A U.S. judge has ordered the extradition of Bosnia-Herzegovina 's former United Nations ambassador , who faces embezzlement charges in Bosnia .
In his ruling , late Wednesday , New York Judge Frank Maas granted a petition by Bosnian authorities - who have accused former ambassador Muhamed Sacirbey of stealing $ 2.4 million in Bosnian public funds .
But the judge stayed his ruling for 10 days to give the accused time to appeal .
Bosnian officials say the missing funds include $ 1.8 million from an investment bank and another $ 6,00,000 from their country 's U.N. mission .
Mr. Sacirbey , who has dual U.S. and Bosnian citizenship , has denied the charges and fought the extradition request .
He was Bosnia Herzegovina 's U.N. ambassador between 1992 and 2000 .
Kyrgyzstan 's acting foreign minister says those who deported four Uzbek asylum seekers back to Uzbekistan will be severely punished .
Roza Otunbayeva told a news conference at the Voice of America Tuesday that the four were returned in violation of Kyrgyz law and without the presence of U.N. human rights officials .
She said an investigation is underway .
More than 400 Uzbeks remain in a refugee camp on the Kyrgyz border .
They fled political violence in Uzbekistan last month when troops fired on unarmed protesters in Andijon .
Witnesses say hundreds were killed .
Ms. Otunbayeva met earlier Tuesday with U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice .
She said the talks were fruitful and described the meeting as a turning point for Kyrgyzstan 's new government .
Former President Askar Akayev fled the country during a popular uprising in March against a parliamentary election that the opposition and independent monitors say was rigged .
The controversial relationship in the United States between the medical profession and the drug industry is in the spotlight .
A prominent medical publication , The Journal of the American Medical Association , has criticized the results of two clinical trials by the pharmaceutical giant , Merck .
The clinical trials , completed before the drug was later taken off the market , tested an anti-inflammatory drug called Vioxx for possible treatment of Alzheimer 's disease .
VOA 's Melinda Smith examines the possible conflicts of interest raised by the journal article , and whether lives might have been saved if the public had known more .
It is almost certain that the National Football League 's New Orleans Saints will have to play all their home games this season somewhere other than their hurricane- and flood-ravaged city .
Their home stadium , The Superdome , suffered major damage and was used as a refuge for thousands of people while the surrounding city was flooded , and it could be uninhabitable for months .
The New Orleans Saints are relocating their workouts to Trinity University in San Antonio , Texas .
The first home NFL game for the team this season is scheduled for September 18 against the New York Giants .
The two most mentioned alternative sites for the game are the Alamodome in San Antonio or the 90,000 - seat stadium in Baton Rouge , which is the home of Louisiana State University .
Saints club officials have said they would like to keep the home games in Louisiana .
Plants have historically played an important role in medicine .
And large parts of the world still rely on plant medicine .
Now leading scientists are studying herbal medicine to see if it can equal or surpass medical science .
VOA 's Carol Pearson has more .
A police raid that killed three militants holding hostages at a mosque has sparked angry protests in Indian-controlled Kashmir .
Thousands of people in the Palnoo village in the southern district of Kulgam demonstrated against the police action Tuesday .
Authorities said three of the five hostages escaped Monday when they were allowed to leave the mosque for food , but refused to go back .
The other two hostages were freed after police fired teargas shells into the mosque , forcing the militants into the open , where two were killed .
The third militant fled to one of the mosque 's minarets where he died in an exchange of gunfire with police .
Various Islamic militant groups have been fighting for Kashmir 's independence from predominantly Hindu India , with some groups demanding its merger with mostly Muslim Pakistan .
Philippine marines say they have seized thousands of blasting caps and a detonator from a ferry on the southern island of Jolo .
Authorities say 6,000 blasting caps were discovered Thursday on board the boat .
A passenger was also taken into custody after police found explosives in his bag .
The man had earlier refused to allow authorities to inspect his belongings .
Officials say passengers were ordered off the ferry immediately following the discovery .
The ferry was headed to Siasi island from Jolo , which is a stronghold of the militant group Abu Sayyaf .
The group has been blamed for a series of attacks in the southern Philippines .
Georgian President Mikhail Saakashvili has accused Russia of deliberately damaging key gas and electric lines that service the former Soviet republic .
President Saakashvili said in a televised address Sunday that Moscow 's explanation of sabotage is " inadequate and contradictory . "
He spoke hours after two explosions cut off natural gas supplies to Georgia , and another blast damaged a high-voltage power line .
Russian officials say a criminal investigation is underway into the blasts .
Mr. Saakashvili also called Moscow an " unprincipled blackmailer " for recently doubling the price it charges Georgia for natural gas .
He said Russian politicians threatened to cut off Georgia 's heat and electricity , and now such utilities have been cut during the coldest winter in decades .
A spokesman for Russia 's natural gas giant , Gazprom , says gas supplies to Georgia will be restored as soon as possible .
President Bush has ordered all White House staff to attend a new round of ethics briefings in the wake of the indictment of a top aide .
In a memo released Saturday , President Bush told his entire staff to attend the briefings , which will include procedures for handling classified information .
The announcement comes one week after Vice President Dick Cheney 's chief of staff , Lewis Libby , was charged with obstruction of justice and perjury .
The case involves the leak of the identity of a CIA officer married to a critic of the intelligence leading up to the Iraq war .
In their weekly radio address , Democrats say there are very serious questions about how the Bush administration handled pre-war intelligence .
Senator Barbara Mikulski , of the state of Maryland also said Mr. Bush should fire all those involved in the leak of the CIA officer 's name .
Dozens of anti-war demonstrators have squared off with counter-protesters near President Bush 's Crawford , Texas ranch .
As protesters seeking the U.S. withdrawal from Iraq rallied Saturday , flag-waving Bush supporters , carrying signs in favor of the war , gathered across the street .
Authorities turned out in force to keep the two groups separated .
The protests come as the mother of a U.S. soldier killed in Iraq remains encamped along a road near Mr. Bush 's ranch , calling for a meeting with the president .
Cindy Sheehan says she is asking the president to tell her what her son died for since no weapons of mass destruction were found in Iraq .
Mr. Bush has said it would be a mistake to bring the troops home now .
He reiterated that message Saturday in his weekly radio address .
A roadside bomb in eastern Afghanistan has killed eight civilians .
Officials say women and children were among the victims of Monday 's blast in Ghazni province .
The French news agency quotes a provincial police as saying the bomb was planted by the Taliban .
In southern Afghanistan , NATO said a joint Afghan-international force has killed a Taliban commander and several armed individuals .
The alliance says the Afghan and coalition forces encountered hostile fire Sunday at a compound outside Kandahar City .
The forces returned fire , killing Taliban commander Shyster Uhstad Khan , and several others .
One suspected insurgent was detained .
NATO say Khan was involved in the distribution and purchase of explosives .
NATO has assumed command of 12,000 U.S. troops in eastern Afghanistan , completing the alliance 's hold on security throughout the country .
NATO now commands international forces across the country and its capital , Kabul .
It is the organization 's largest operation .
The ceremony marking the transfer of command was held in Kabul Thursday .
U.S. and NATO commanders as well as Afghan President Hamid Karzai attended .
President Karzai thanked his allies for their help in battling terrorism .
The commander of NATO 's Afghan force , British General David Richards , said the unity of command the transfer brought will enhance the effectiveness of the overall operation .
Referring to the fight in southern Afghanistan since NATO took command there in July , Richards said the NATO force has shown its resolve to meet the challenges of its expanded mission .
Richards was promoted to four-star general hours before the command change .
Burma 's military government said today that ex-Prime Minister Khin Nyunt was ousted last month because his investigations of military commanders threatened the unity of the armed forces .
State-controlled newspapers on Sunday published a speech delivered October 24 by ruling council member General Thura Shwe Mahn , who said Khin Nyunt began investigating rival officers after being told he would be replaced as military intelligence chief .
Thura Shwe Mahn said those actions posed a serious threat to the unity of the military and the nation .
He also told businessmen with connections to Khin Nyunt to disclose that information to the ruling council .
The former prime minister was replaced October 19 by hardliner Lieutenant General Soe Win .
The change in leaders is believed to be indicative of deep divisions within the government .
A new report says nearly 4,000 people have been killed in fighting in Afghanistan this year .
The Joint Coordination and Monitoring Board Monday , says insurgent violence has killed 3700 people so far this year , most of them rebels .
The report also says militants launch about 600 attacks a month , four times higher than last year 's monthly average .
The monitoring board is comprised of Afghan and international representatives , including the United Nations .
The report comes as Afghan officials announced that the bodies of 20 Taleban militants had been recovered from Bermel district in Paktika province , where NATO and Afghan forces recently conducted a mission .
A U.S.-backed operation pushed the Taleban from power in 2001 , but members of the extremist group continue to fight Afghan and foreign forces defending the Kabul government .
Indian border security forces are accusing their Pakistani counterparts of lobbing at least four rockets into northern Punjab state .
Indian officials said no one was injured in Saturday 's incident but that two of the rockets landed near a border security outpost .
Two more landed in fields belonging to a nearby village .
They say not all of the rockets exploded upon impact .
